
 ==========================
 == THE ELECTRONIC GAMER ==
 ==========================
 
 MANIAC MANSION 2: DAY OF THE TENTACLE WALKTHRU
 
 Welcome to the second MANIAC MANSION adventure, DAY OF THE TENTACLE (DOTT).
This walkthru is divided into sections based on which one of the three
characters: Bernard, Hoagie or Laverne is active.
 
 The game can be finished in several ways, using different characters
at different times. The following walkthru is based upon the way I finished
the game.
 
 GENERAL NOTES
 
 As with every LucasArts adventure, the interface is relatively simple.
9 verbs are displayed on the screen (e.g. PICK UP, WALK, etc.) When
these verbs are to be used in the game, I've presented them in all caps.
 
 When I say in the walkthru "TALK TO . . . " this means you should talk to
the character and explore all possible dialogue paths. It will help
you understand the story better and provide invaluable clues about solving the
puzzles.
 
 Unlike other LucasArts adventures, if you CLICK on an INVENTORY ITEM,
its icon will now become active and you can click that object anywhere
on the screen. It's a drag and drop feature. So instead of "USING teeth
with toothbrush," you could click on the teeth and drag them over to
the toothbrush. This is an alternate method to the one described in the
walkthru. You can use the one with which you feel comfortable.
 
 DOTT has many inventory objects that have to be given from one character
to another to be used. They are flushed through the Chron-O-John. The
fastest way to do this is to click on the object and then drag it over
to the other characters face. That character will now have that object
in their inventory. I'll refer to this method as FLUSHING or GIVING an
item to another character.
 
 At the start, I'm very specific about places in the mansion. Later
in the game, I expect that you will have learned the basic outline of the
mansions, and thus loosen up on my descriptions.
 
 As in other LucasArts adventures, you can never die in DOTT, so there isn't
really any need to save your game very often. But it is a good idea to do
so once in a while just to be safe (in case of a lockup, etc.)
 
 IN THE MANSION WITH BERNARD
 
 The first time you gain control of the game, you're Bernard and standing in
the hall of the Maniac Mansion (present day).
 
 First off, PICK UP the help wanted sign in the window, then PICK UP the flier
from the rack of fliers.  In the pay phone, you will find a dime. PICK it up.
 
 Next, OPEN the white door with the office sign. WALK inside. On Dr. Fred's
desk, PICK UP his Swiss bankbook. OPEN the drawer, and PICK UP the Booboo-B-
Gone. Leave Dr. Fred's office.
 
 Since Laverene and Hoagie have the rest of the house covered, it's up to
Bernard to find Dr. Fred's secret lab. Try OPENing the grandfather clock.
You've just found a secret passage to Dr. Fred's lab.
 
 WATCH THE CUT-SCENE and you will learn valuable information and find out that
you're going to have to go back in time to save the world from the tentacles!
 
 But during your trip back in time, Dr. Fred's imitation diamond breaks and all
three of the kids are sent into different time periods. Bernard ends up exactly
where he started (in the lab), Hoagie 200 years in the past, and Laverene in
200 years in the future!
 
 You gain control of Bernard again. WALK to the right of the screen. To
the right of the hamster generator is a To Do list. LOOK at the paper below
the To Do list and you will discover it's the super battery plans (patent).
PICK UP the paper (now called patent application).  If you are playing the
floppy version, the copy protection will now occur. Look in your manual for
the answers. If you happen to be playing the CD-ROM version, there is no copy
protection at all, so don't worry about it.
 
 IMPORTANT: Dr. Fred has just FLUSHED the patent application to Hoagie, so he
can possibly create a super battery to power his Chron-O-John. This FLUSHING
is used quite often in the game to send objects among the 3 characters. To
get used to this flushing method, let's try something out. To switch to
another character, click on their face on the far right of the screen. In
this case, click on Bernard's face. Dr. Fred will explain that he needs to
find money for a new diamond. Let's flush the textbook that Bernard
has in his inventory to Hoagie. Simply click on textbook, and then move it
over Hoagie's face. Click your mouse button and Hoagie will now have
possession of the textbook. Do the same with the FLIER and HELP WANTED sign.
 
 SHAPING THE FUTURE OF AMERICA WITH HOAGIE
 
 Ok, good. The next part of the game is basically used to gather inventory
items for use later. As Hoagie, walk along the path and pay special attention
to the kumquat tree (the tree with orange fruits). Continue along the path.
 
 You should now be on a main screen with the mansion to the left and a field
to the right. WALK over to the field (to the right). WOW! Ben Franklin
himself is flying a kite. Remember what Ben discovered while flying a kite?
Electricity! He might be very helpful later in the game so you can get
power for your Chron-O-John. TALK to Ben for a while and learn about your
present location.
 
 Now head over to the Mansion. On your way in, LOOK AT the carriage. It sure
looks like it needs a cleaning, but first Hoagie will need some cleaning
supplies. Walk over near the mansion and OPEN the mailbox. PICK UP the
letter inside and flush it to Bernard. OPEN the mansion door and head inside.
 
 Hm. This place looks familiar, doesn't it? Wait a sec! This is the
Maniac Mansion, 200 years in the past! Remember that secret passage Bernard
found in the present day mansion? Well maybe it existed 200 years ago, also.
To find out, try to OPEN the grandfather clock. By gosh, it's still there!
 
 WALK down the stairs and TALK to Red Edison (Dr. Fred's distant cousin). PICK
UP the left-handed hammer on the left side of Red Edison's desk. You see
that nice lab coat hanging there? It would sure be nice if you could pick it
up, but Red won't let you. I think he has it reserved for assistants only.
If you GIVE Red the HELP WANTED sign, he will think you want to become his
assistant. Now that you are a full-fledged employee of Red's he'll let you
PICK UP the lab coat.
 
 Since Red seems to be the only scientist around, maybe you should show him the
patent application and see if he can help you make the super battery. GIVE
the PATENT APPLICATION to Red. He will explain that you need OIL, VINEGAR and
GOLD to make the super battery. Time to go searching for those ingredients!
WALK UPSTAIRS.
 
 OPEN the big red doors with the MAIN HALL sign over them. WALK inside and TALK
TO John Hancock, Thomas Jefferson and George Washington. It seems like that
suggestion box is lacking suggestions, don't you think? How about fixing
that, by USING the filer with the suggestion box. Since George has changed
the constitution to include a vacuum cleaner, Laverne now has one she can use
in the future. It seems that the Thomas Jefferson won't give up that log of
his to start a fire though everyone is freezing. But I bet if George
Washington looked cold, Jefferson would start a fire! How could you make
George look cold? We'll come back to that. WALK through the swinging doors
and into the kitchen.
 
In the kitchen, PICK UP the spaghetti from the pantry. Also, there is oil on
the shelf! PICK UP the oil. You've already found one of the ingredients for the
super battery. Only two more to go.
 
 OPEN the door on the right and WALK into the room. PICK UP the bucket on the
floor. OPEN the red cabinet. Inside you'll find a brush. Hey, remember the
carriage outside? That brush and bucket would sure come in handy for cleaning
it, but you still need some soap. Anyhow, PICK UP the brush and leave
the room. In the kitchen there is a water pump on the left side. USE the
bucket with the water pump and fill it up with water. WALK through the
swinging doors, then exit the main hall and go upstairs.
 
 Once upstairs, OPEN the first door on the right. Wow, what an honor. This
is where George Washington sleeps. I bet he has good maid service since he
is the president of the United States. Let's mess his bed up a little! USE
George's bed. Now all the covers are messed up. Let's see what kind of maid
service George gets. PULL the cord to the left side of the door. FAST
SERVICE! Quickly walk outside of George's room. Outside, there is the maid's
cart, and look what is on it! SOAP! If you could get that soap, then you
could probably wash the carriage outside. Be careful the maid doesn't see
you. CLOSE the DOOR and then PICK UP the soap. USE the SOAP with the bucket
of water to make soapy water. Well it looks like Hoagie has all the stuff he
needs to clean the carriage, but he still has to find those two ingredients for
the super battery, VINEGAR and GOLD, so let's continue searching the house.
 
 OPEN the door to the final room in this hall. It looks like Ben Franklin's
room. To the right of the door, there is a WINE bottle. PICK UP the wine
bottle. Wait a sec! Doesn't wine eventually mature into vinegar after a long
time? It sure does! Maybe Hoagie could give the wine to Jefferson to put in
his time capsule and then Laverene could send it back to Hoagie through the
Chron-O-John 400 years into the future where it's bound to be vinegar. Leave
the room and walk into the next hall.
 
 Look at the horse! Try talking to the horse. WOW! It talks. Have a chat
with the horse, and then try reading him some of that textbook. USE the
textbook with the horse. Looks like he is so bored he's fallen asleep, but
first he put his dentures into the glass. Disgusting as it may be, PICK UP
the horse dentures. Now open the door on the left side of the hall and WALK in.
 
 It's Ned and Jed Edison! It looks like Ned is carving a really nice statue
of Jed. Let's play a trick on Ned though. USE the left-handed hammer with
the right-handed hammer Ned is currently using. After a quick switcharoo, Ned
can no longer carve so he and Jed have to switch places. Since you've had
about as much fun as you can in this room, exit it.
 
 WALK up the stairway. How cute! A cat and mouse playing with each other. USE
Ned's bed. Hm. That squeaky mattress seemed to distract the cat for a
second. Maybe if you could distract it longer, you could pick up that rat.
USE the squeaky mattress with Jed's bed. Now try USING Jed's bed. The cat
will walk over, and quickly, PICK UP the squeaky mouse toy. LOOK AT that
bucket of Red paint behind the cat. Remember when George Washington said he
used to cut down Cherry trees and remember the kumquat tree outside. Cherries
are red, and that paint is red. I bet Hoagie could paint the Kumquat tree red
(it's presently orange) and then convince George to cut it down. It's worth
a shot. PICK UP the red paint and exit through the window and then walk over
to the chimney and climb down it.
 
 Before heading outside to paint the Kumquat tree, GIVE the wine to Jefferson
for his time capsule.
 
 WALK outside and over to the Kumquat tree. USE the red paint with the Kumquat
tree. It looks just like a cherry tree now. Go back inside the mansion and
TALK TO George Washington. You're going to need to convince George to chop
it down.
 
 Say:
 "Is it true about you and the cherry tree?"
 "I bet you've lost it. You couldn't cut down a tree to save your grandmother"
 
 Now that the tree is chopped down, Laverne is free! Let's not get too
confused with Laverne yet, but try to help Bernard. First, GIVE Red Paint
to Bernard and then click on Bernard's face to gain control of him.
 
 CHECKING OUT THE MANSION TO HELP DR. FRED STARING BERNARD
 
 After exiting the grandfather clock, walk up the stairs to the right. Enter
the room with the "W" marked on it. (A honeymoon suite). CLOSE the door behind
you. Wait a second! There's a set of keys in the door. PICK UP the keys. USE
the television to find out about the diamond Dr. Fred needs to buy to "save the
world." That's about all you can do here now. OPEN the door again and
leave the room. Go into the first "R" room.
 
 Poor Dwayne. He's just tried to commit suicide. Try to cheer him up, by
GIVING him the letter in your inventory. Now that Dwayne is so happy, he
immediately leaves his room. PICK UP the disappearing ink on the table beside
the door, and PICK UP the flag gun beside the bed. Exit the room and go
into the second "R" room.
 
 Look, it's Bernard's old friend Green Tentacle. TALK to green and find out
about Purple's plans to take over the world. PUSH the speaker that has
nothing on top of it. USE the stereo beside the door. Looks like some fake
bark fell off the ceiling!  Remember to go pick it up later. Since the stereo
is really, loud, USE it again and it will turn off. Also, on top of the
stereo there is a videotape. PICK UP the videotape and then leave Green's
room.
 
 Walk toward the arrow and enter the next hall. OPEN the door to the right.
It's weird Ed Edison. TALK to Weird Ed. PICK UP the hamster in the cage.
[NOTE: Beside Ed's desk, there is a computer. If you USE the computer, you
will get the play the Original Maniac Mansion game. Once you exit Maniac
Mansion 1, you will return to the same place you were in #2. A walkthru for
MANIAC MANSION 1 is available in the TEG ARCHIVES] Bernard, being the
practical joker he is, has a perfect opportunity to have some fun with Ed.
USE the disappearing ink with Ed's stamp album. Watch it disappear. You're
now outside in the hall. PICK UP the stamp and the STAMP ALBUM. Since
Bernard is a nice guy, GIVE the stamp album back to Weird Ed, but keep the
stamp.
 
 Exit his room, and walk back to near room "W" where there is an ice
machine on the left wall. OPEN the ice machine and USE the hamster with it.
He's now permanently frozen and will be preserved. WALK back downstairs and
PICK UP the fake barf that fell down. Go outside. Notice Dead Cousin Ted.
He will come in handy later on. WALK to the right side of the screen and you
will end up in the parking lot. TALK TO the man in the ski mask. GIVE the
man the keys you found in the honeymoon suite. He will give you a crowbar.
Now head back into the house. USE the crowbar with the gum with a dime stuck
in it on the floor Now USE the gum with a dime stuck in it to get the gum
off the dime. Head back upstairs to the "W" room. USE both the dimes you have
with the FickleFingers coin slot. The man on the bed will fall off, but leave
his sweater behind. PICK UP the sweater and leave the room.
 
 USE the crowbar with the candy machine and then PICK UP the quarters.
 
 Walk downstairs into the main hallway, and OPEN the white doors below the
welcome sign.  TALK to the cigar salesman. He will offer you a cigar.
Except his offer. USE the flag gun with the cigar lighter (looks like a gun).
Bernard will make a quick switch. Now TALK TO the cigar salesman again.
 
 Say:
 "Nice Cigars."
 "Sure, lay one of those Havanan babies on me."
 
 The salesman will put a cigar in your mouth and try to light it, but since you
replaced the cigar lighter with the flag gun, the cigar didn't light. It's a
good thing too! LOOK AT it and you will discover it's an exploding cigar.
 
 Near the fireplace, there is a grate. OPEN the grating. Now walk over to the
vat of teeth on the next screen to the left. Try to PICK UP the chattering
teeth. They are too hard to catch. So WALK behind them and chase them into
the grating. Once they fall into the grate, PICK UP the chattering teeth.
Hm, those might look good in George Washington, to make him look cold!
Think about that.
 
 Now WALK through the swinging door beside the fireplace. Welcome to the
kitchen. PICK UP the fork on the table an also PICK UP the coffee and decaf
coffee pots on the coffee maker. Open the door near the microwave and enter
the next room.
 
 OPEN the pink cabinet, and inside PICK UP the funnel. Since the sweater is
all wet from the man's drool, you should dry it off. OPEN the dryer, and then
USE SWEATER with DRYER. Now USE QUARTERS with COIN SLOT on the DRYER (that
should keep the machine going, for say, 200 years?).
 
 WALK back downstairs to Dr. Fred's secret lab. In order for Dr. Fred to get
the 4 million dollars needed for the diamond, he needs to remember the safe
combination to get the contract. Maybe if you put him to sleep, he will
remember it. It seems he only drinks regular coffee to keep him awake, so
what would happen if he drank decaf? Chances are he would fall asleep. Try
it out. GIVE decaf coffee to Dr. Fred. He instantly falls asleep and goes
upstairs to his office.
 
 WALK upstairs to the second hall. OPEN the door to the room on the left and
enter. It's the video room, and look what is on the monitor. Dr. Fred with
the safe combination! TALK TO nurse Edna. It looks like she's not letting
you anywhere near the equipment so you can see Dr. Fred's safe combination.
So PUSH nurse Edna to get her out of the way. Now, it's time to look at the
safe combination. First, USE videotape with VCR (located to the right of the
large TV monitor) to record the safe combination. LOOK AT monitor. Press the
RECORD BUTTON (red square) to record Dr. Fred opening the safe. Shoot! He's
opening it too fast! And now the IRS has taken Dr. Fred away. Try slowing
down the tape. First, REWIND the tape (<<). NOW, change the SP/EP
switch on the right to EP and press PLAY (>). Now that the tape is slowed
down, you can see the combination. [NOTE: You don't need to remember this
combination]. Now leave the monitor by clicking the outside of it, and walk
downstairs to Dr. Fred's office.
 
 Now that you know the combination, OPEN the safe and then PICK UP the contract.
All you have to do is get Hoagie to mail it from the past, and then the
contract will be valid through time. You need a stamp! That stamp from
Weird Ed's stamp book will do just fine. USE stamp with contract. Good.
Now exit the room and go through the white doors.
 
 Go up the chimney by just clicking on it. WALK through the right window.
Look! It's Dr. Fred all tied up by the IRS. First, PICK UP the rope around
him. Now, PICK UP Dr. Fred. OOPS! The IRS heard about Dr. Fred and has put
him back. It looks like you need a suitable substitute for Dr. Fred. How
about Dead Cousin Ted downstairs? He's already bandaged up! Exit though the
window, and USE rope with pulley. Go back downstairs through the chimney and
out the front door. Since Dr. Fred is red, USE red paint with Dead Cousin
Ted. Now USE dangling rope with Dead Cousin Ted. Walk back upstairs through
the chimney. PULL rope. Since you have fallen down, WALK back upstairs
through the chimney again! This time, on the flagpole, PICK UP the
crank. Now WALK back in the window. USE Ted with Dr. Fred to make them
switch places. To get Dr. Fred out of the room, USE rope with Dr. Fred.
WALK outside and PULL rope.
 
 You now gain control of Bernard back down in the lab. You need to wake Dr.
Fred up. Use the opposite method of the way you put him to sleep. USE funnel
with Dr. Fred. USE coffee with Dr. Fred and he will awaken. Fred is now
awake, and you need him to sign the contract. USE contract with Dr. Fred.
To get him to sign it say:
 
 "Oh, forget it. I'll get rid of Purple Tentacle myself!"
 "I'm getting Purple Tentacle declared insane and arrested."
 
 Dr. Fred signs the contract.
 
 It's time to go back in time to Hoagie. But first, FLUSH the following
items to Hoagie: Exploding Cigar, chattering teeth, signed contract, and the
cigar lighter. Switch to the control of Hoagie.
 
 HOAGIE HELPS BERNARD AND DR. FRED OUT
 
 WALK over to the dirty carriage and USE bucket full of soapy water with
carriage. The sky will turn gray and a thunderstorm will start. Ben Franklin
will enter the house because of the poor design of his current kite in the
weather.
 
 To mail the signed contract through time, walk over to the mailbox and USE
signed contract with mailbox. After viewing the cut scene with Dr. Fred, walk
inside the mansion (as Hoagie). Go into the main hall and USE exploding cigar
with George Washington. OOPS! His teeth fell out. GIVE chattering teeth to
George Washington. His fellow colleagues think that George looks cold because
his teeth are chattering, so the three founding fathers build a fire. WALK
over near John Hancock and PICK UP the blanket. WALK upstairs to the room with
the cat and mouse and go out the window. USE blanket with Chimney and the
house will fill with smoke. Go back through the window to the main hall.
PICK UP gold-plated quill pen from the desk to use as the gold ingredient for
the super battery. WALK left and the founding fathers will automatically appear.
 
 Switch to Laverne (you can't flush her any items just yet!)
 
 IN THE FUTURE WITH LAVERNE
 
 TALK TO Tentacle Guard and say "Oooh... I don't feel so good..." He will take
you to the medical room. After the Dr. Tentacle leaves, PICK UP the Tentacle
chart and exit through the door. TALK TO the person in Tutu sitting on the
bench. After learning about the tentacle contest, WALK through the big door
in the middle of the screen, and then WALK into the kennel.
 
 Again, TALK TO the Tentacle Guard and say "I have to go to the bathroom!"
Once you are outside, WALK along the path to the Chron-o-John. GIVE
Tentacle Chart to Hoagie and GIVE scalpel to Bernard. Switch to Hoagie and get
him to GIVE Laverene the following items: can-opener, spaghetti (which gets wet
in the Chron-o-john), dentures and the squeaky mouse toy.
 
 Hoagie should walk upstairs to the flag room (2nd room). USE the Tentacle
Chart with patterns. Now Laverene can use the Tentacle flag in the future as a
costume to make her look like a tentacle. Switch to Bernard.
 
 Have Bernard WALK upstairs to the room with the fireplace, and USE scalpel
With Oozo the Clown. PICK UP Box 'O Laughs and then GIVE them to Laverne.
Also, GIVE Laverene the following items: Crank, Booboo-B-Gone, Fake Bark, and
the fork. Switch back to Laverne.
 
 Make Laverne WALK back to the front yard and enter the mansion. She will
automatically be placed back into custody. TALK TO the Tentacle guard for one
last time and say "Oooh... I don't feel so good..." You are now in the
medical room. Exit the room. Go NORTH. USE fireplace to climb it. USE
crank with crank box. Now PULL crank to lower the flag. PICK UP flag and USE
flag. You are now a Tentacle look alike! Go back down through the chimney.
 
 WALK EAST, and TALK TO Blue Tentacle. He will automatically give you a name
tag. WALK through the WEST door and up the stairs.
 
 LOOK AT ice machine. Remember the hamster Bernard put there 200 years ago?
Looks like it's still frozen. PICK UP frozen hamster. Enter room "W"
 
 Look! It's the time capsule from 400 years ago! USE can opener with time
capsule. The wine that Hoagie put in the capsule has matured into vinegar,
the last ingredient needed for the super battery. PICK UP the vinegar. GIVE
(FLUSH) the vinegar to Hoagie. Switch to him.
 
 WALK out of the flag room and down to Red's secret workshop (via the
grandfather clock).
 
 GIVE oil to Red, along with the gold-plated quill pen, and the vinegar. Red
will build the battery. Once he is done, PICK UP battery. The only problem
is that the battery needs to be charged.
 
 WALK into Ben Franklin's room. (3rd room on the second floor.) GIVE labcoat
to Ben. He will now make a new kite and you are automatically taken outside
with Ben. Before Ben says "NOW" USE super battery with pocket (on the kite).
This has to be done fast, but if it doesn't work, you do get as many chances
as you need. When Ben says "NOW" PUSH the kite.  Later that day, Ben
awakens. He drops the battery on his way to Philly. With the lightning
striking the kite, the battery is fully charged! Hoagie is ready to go home.
PICK UP the fully-charged battery on the ground, that Ben dropped, and head
back to the Chron-o-John.
 
 USE battery with plug on Chron-o-John. Now when Laverne's Chron-o-John is
set-up, everyone can go back to the present. One down, one to go!
Switch back to Laverne.
 
 Enter the next room (R). USE name tag with the Mummy. PICK UP the
extension cord. PICK UP the roller skates and then USE roller skates with
Mummy. PUSH Mummy into the human show.
 
 Have Laverne go into Room F and meet with Purple Tentacle. TALK to him if
you want to, or else leave the room and walk north. You've arrived at the
Tentacle contest.
 
 The first thing is to disqualify that Harold guy. He has a rather amazing
haircut, which the mummy surely couldn't beat. USE the fake barf with Harold.
He will be disqualified because he looks sick.
 
 It's time to dress up the mummy. USE wet soggy noodles with Mummy. USE fork
with Mummy's head to style her hair. USE Box O' Laughs with Mummy and
finally, USE dentures with Mummy.
 
 WALK over to the highly restricted judging area and TALK TO the Judges.
 
 Say: "Hey, when are you guys going to judge Best Hair?"
 The Mummy wins!
 
 TALK TO them again and say:
 "Hey, when are you guys going to judge Best Smile?"
 The mummy wins without competition!
 
 For the last time TALK TO the judges and say:
 "Hey, when are you guys going to judge Best Laugh?"
 The mummy wins the entire contest!
 
 Exit the room and WALK outside. There is a cat on the lawn. Hm. Major joke
potential here. USE the Booboo-B-Gone with the fence. The cat now looks like
a skunk. To lure the cat down from the roof, USE squeaky mouse toy with cat.
 
 Walk back inside, go NORTH then EAST (enter the door beside the fireplace).
You are now in the high-tech kitchen. USE frozen hamster with microwave.
You've nuked him! WALK EAST into the next room. Wow, it's the laundry room and
the sweater just finished drying (Bernard sure did put a lot of quarters in
it 200 years ago!). OPEN dryer and PICK UP sweater. It's extremely small now,
even small enough for a hamster! USE sweater with cool-wet hamster to warm
him up. He's now toasty warm! Exit the room.
 
 GO NORTH, and NORTH again into the kennel. TALK TO the Tentacle guard. Now,
GIVE Tentacle guard the dinner certificate. He will exit the room. PULL switch
to turn off the alarm system. It seems the folks being held captive, are so
tired they don't want to escape. Make them want to escape by USING cat. They
will all run out of the mansion in a frenzy! It seems the head tentacle guard
also left!
 
 Exit the room and go WEST. OPEN the Grandfather clock and enter it. It's a
generator. That would sure work well to power Laverne's Chron-o-John. USE
toasty warm hamster with generator. Don't worry about the hand that comes out
(it happens every time). It seems the little hamster got scared and ran into
a mouse hole.
 
 Thank god Hoagie changed the constitution to include a vacuum cleaner. First
PICKUP hub cap and then USE built-in shop vac with mouse hole. OPEN hatch on
the vacuum cleaner and PICK UP dustball.
 
 Try it again. USE toasty warm hamster with generator. Now USE extension cord
with outlet and USE extension cord with window.
 
 Exit the mansion and return to the Chron-o-John. USE extension cord with
plug. Laverne now has power!
 
 SPENDING 2 MILLION ON A DIAMOND WITH BERNARD
 
 The final act of business is to get that new diamond.
 
 Switch to Bernard. WALK upstairs to Dwayne's room (R). USE phone to order
the diamond.
 
 This is going to take some time, since it will come via regular mail, so come
back in 3 weeks and you can play the game some more (just kidding! It's a
little walkthru humor, ok?).
 
 In the magic world of computer games, the diamond can be delivered within
seconds. With the new diamond in place, everyone is brought back in time!
Dr. Fred transports the threesome back in time to where Purple Tentacle was
turned insane, so the Sludge-O-Matic can be turned off and this whole fiasco
never happens. But Purple has also arrived because he wants to stay insane!
 
 THREE HEADS ARE BETTER THAN ONE
 
 OOPS! It seems during the trip back in time, everyone is now one person
trying to escape the evil purple tentacle and his ray gun. Exit the
honeymoon suite, and OPEN room "R" (make sure you aren't small). Purple
Tentacle will zap you. Quickly WALK into room "R" and go thr