Subject: Fallout FAQ (last revised 19-Dec-97)
From: htimsc@moc.rric.pcuu.orobenots (Chris Smith)
Date: Sat, 20 Dec 1997 14:16:12 GMT
Newsgroups: comp.sys.ibm.pc.games.rpg,comp.sys.mac.games.adventure

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
			    F A L L O U T
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

		      Frequently Asked Questions
			   19 December 1997
	

 --- Introduction -------------------------------------------------------------

   I've enjoyed Fallout immensely, it's a great game, and read all the
   netnews about it.  I put this together to organize and condense the
   collected wisdom of the group.  Some of it anyway.  And indeed
   there are some questions that get asked quite frequently.

   I haven't attributed each individual paragraph, instead there's a
   list of contributors at the end.

   Hints that divulge information you may not have discovered yet
   appear in the Spoilers section.  It's safe to read up to there.
   The organization of that section owes a lot to Paul D. Smith's
   excellent Relentless FAQ; hopefully you can find the answer to
   something you're stuck on without learning things you don't want
   to know.
   
   Comments, corrections, additions are welcome.  Post or mail.

			  -- Chris Smith
				csmith
				  @
		       stoneboro.uucp.cirr.com


 --- General Hints ------------------------------------------------------------

 The Oracle (sort of)
   
   The Overseer can provide help if you get stumped.  As they say
   in the manual, save the game, and go back to Vault 13 and see what
   he has to suggest.  He won't tell you how to solve particular
   side quests but will provide guidance on the big picture.

 Learning to Drive

   How to use the interface to accomplish some task may not be clear
   at first.

   For example, say you want to tie a rope to something.  There are
   two ways to do it.  First way: left-click on the object you want the
   rope tied to and keep the button held down.  You'll be offered some
   choices: look at, talk to, use, use inventory on, use skill on.
   Pick the picture of your backpack -- use inventory on -- then choose
   the rope from your inventory.  Second way: put the rope into one of
   your "hands", the active item slots.  Click on the rope in your hand,
   the cursor will turn yellow, click on the object you want to tie it to.

   Another example.  Say you want to use a stimpak in combat to heal
   some hit points.  Click INV to go to inventory, move the stimpak to
   your free "hand", select that hand and click on the stimpak, the
   cursor turns yellow, click on yourself.  Second way: click INV to
   to go inventory, click and hold on the stimpaks, you'll be offered
   choices including a hand -- use item.  Select that and you'll use
   the stimpak.  You can then do this again to use another one, without
   using any more action points, so this second method is preferable.
   
   To use a stimpak on someone else, see above about the rope.
   To read a book or holodisk, click on it in inventory and hold,
   and select the hand cursor.

   That little screen in the bottom left is worth watching.  It will
   often describe a room you just entered, or something that just
   happened to you.  It gives a little beep when something appears there.
   You can scroll it back and forward by moving your mouse to its top
   or bottom half.

   You can scroll through your inventory very rapidly with the arrow
   keys.

   When trading or moving items around, you can type in the desired
   quantity on the keyboard instead of clicking the arrows. 


 --- Combat -------------------------------------------------------------------

   When you finish combat, reload your weapon and put it away.
   Running out of ammo in the middle of a battle costs valuable time,
   and many people will not be pleased if you walk up and talk to them
   while pointing a gun.  (Don't put it in your pack, just switch hands.)
   You can unload captured weapons to get their ammo.

   Critical hits do much more damage than normal hits.  You're more
   likely to score a critical hit using a targeted attack.  Difficult
   spots are more likely to score criticals.  Eyes are the hardest to
   hit and the most likely to do critical damage.

   Do not crank the violence up if you want bodies to be easy to search.
   Otherwise, when you blow someone to smithereens their inventory drops
   to the ground and can be difficult to find.  There's no way to get that
   kewl butcher-shop ambience and retain convenient looting.  If this
   becomes a problem, avoid Bloody Mess and don't go above Normal violence.

   (In fact, I myself turned the violence off, it's so very tasteful
   that way, but this is a mistake if you find the alien blaster.
   Minimal violence at least for that.)

   If there is a pile of bodies in one spot, there will be little arrows
   beneath the body picture to step through all the bodies in the pile.
   In general if the information displayed seems to be incomplete (for
   example, the Perk selection screen) there are scroll arrows nearby.
   
   If you annoy someone and they attack you, and you are able to 
   knock them out without killing them, you can end combat and resume 
   conversation.  Running away can avoid combat too, but they stay mad.


 --- Bugs ---------------------------------------------------------------------

   There are some minor spoilers here.

   A patch is available, you can get it via Interplay's Fallout page
     http://www.interplay.com/fallout
   Both Windows and Mac version 1.1 exist.  If the links on the web
   page are broken, you can read the needed ftp info off the page source.

 Can't read the CD.
    
   Ask Interplay.  News traffic hasn't had much to say since mid October
   and what there was is light on answers.

 My party has two (or many) copies of the NPC's.

   This is a bug in v1.0 only, and is fixed in the v1.1 patch.  
   It has something to do with save/restore during combat.  If it has
   happened to you, the only solution is to exit the game completely,
   then load a saved game that does not have the problem.

 It crashes when I try to save/restore.

   Saved games can be really huge, make sure you have free disk space.
   If space is tight, leave some of the save slots empty.
   
 Stealth Boy turns into Geiger Counter

   Don't save the game when a Stealth Boy is turned on.
   If you get turned into a permanent ghost, you can clear it by
   putting another stealth boy in a slot and turning it on and off.


 --- Character Creation -------------------------------------------------------

   A design goal for this game was that "a big dumb strong ox and
   a pretty little lady would not have the same overall experience."

   The prerolled characters are all different and free of gotchas in
   their statistics.  There's no need to roll your own character
   unless you feel like it.  If you do want to, here are some thoughts.

   Strength determines how much you can carry and what weapons you
   can wield without penalizing accuracy.  See the weapons table.

   Intelligence determines how fast your skills increase and what
   dialog options you get.  Speech skill is how convincing you are.
   Low intelligence characters face a very different game.

   There is no value in raising your Endurance from an even number to
   an odd number (extra poison and rad resistance are useless).

   Lots of people recommend Agility 10 for gunslingers; you can shoot
   twice per round with weapons that require 5 action points.

   Another recommendation: tag Big Guns or Energy Weapons, and Repair.
   Or at least do not neglect those skills.  But develop Small Guns
   early on, it's more important.  Others feel Small Guns will get you
   all the way through satisfactorily.

   Another one: take Gifted and another trait, Finesse is one approach.
   Don't start with stats at 10, they can all be increased by +1 during
   the game.  Take Strength 5 and Intelligence 9, to have weapon choices
   and to get skill points to offset those lost by Gifted.  Don't spend
   skill points or tag skills on anything that you can get from books
   instead.  EN 4  CH 6  LK 5  and Presence worked well.

   The Sniper perk is improved by high Luck.

   You can build the following skills with books: small guns, science,
   repair, first aid, outdoors.  Perhaps tagging those is unnecessary.
   Except maybe Small Guns.

   More comments on attributes: ST 7 allows you to use any weapon in
   the game.  PE high to get ranged attack bonus.  EN low, 2-3 hit points
   per level won't save you from damage in the hundreds.  CH moderate,
   4-6 does ok.  IN high, 9-10.  AG high, the most important combat stat.
   LK 6 to get good combat perks.  Tag combat skills -- tagging such
   things as Sneak, Science, Speech, Repair is worthless, you can do
   well with about 50% in all non-combat skills.
   
   Specific characters people posted having good times with:

    AG 9-10  IN 6+  LK 4  (Luck has an effect only at extreme values)
     No traits, or just Heavy Handed
     tag Small Guns, Lock Pick, and one of Energy Weapons, Science, Repair.
    
    Sniper:  PE 6  AG 10  IN 6  LK 6   Gifted, Finesse
     tag Small Guns and Energy Weapons, build combat skills to 140%-160%
     choose Bonus Rate of Fire, More Criticals, Better Criticals.

    Sniper:  ST 4  PE 8  EN 3  CH 2  IN 10  AG 10  LK 10  Finesse, Gifted
     tag Small Guns, Lockpick, Barter
     work on speech skill if you want to talk to people.
     take the Tag! perk when it becomes available and tag Energy Weapons.
     take Sniper when it becomes available.
     you'll have low hit points so be careful.

    Unarmed: Fast Shot, Bonus HtH Attacks, Slayer.
     if you have 9 APs, you have 9 critical hits each turn.

    Diplosniper:  PE 10  IN 10  CH 10  rest 4-5  Skilled, Gifted
     tag Small Guns, Speech, Doctor
     work on small guns skill, when it's 160% you can make called shots
      at extreme range in the dark with too-heavy weapons at 95% success
     high Intelligence, Charisma, speech skill mean you get all options
      in conversation, and will be believed

    Late game badass: AG 9  PE 9  IN 9  ST 6  EN 6  LK 4  CH 4  Gifted
     tag Small Guns, Energy Weapons, Speech
     take Strong Back, Bonus ROF, Action Boy x2, Sniper, Action Boy
     the extra AP's from perks allow 3 called shots with turbo plasma.
     Or boost LK at the expense of EN and CH, take mule, educated, 
      bonus ROF, action boy, better criticals, sniper, action boy.
      Tag energy weapons, lockpick, one of (speech barter steal).
      This one is better late and worse early.

    Sniper/thief:  ST 6  PE 8  EN 5  CH 4  IN 9  AG 10  LK 5  Gifted, Finesse
     tag Small Guns, Steal, Speech, take Swift Learner, Sharpshooter

    ST 6  PE 9  EN 3  CH 2  IN 9  AG 9  LK 9  Gifted, Fast Hand
     tag Energy Weapons, Unarmed Combat, Lockpick
     take Earlier Sequence, Bonus HtH, Bonus Rate of Fire, Better Criticals,
      Cult of Personality, Sniper, Slayer.
     avoid Fast Hand unless you plan to get to level 18 and take Sniper
      or Slayer.  It's a detriment until then, a bonus combined with those.
     for a pure shooter, don't tag Unarmed and replace HtH with Educated,
      and Slayer with something else (Bonus Move, Action Boy, etc).
     if you like playing a good guy, drop Cult and add another Action Boy
      for 6 critical hits ranged or 12 close.


 --- Trivia -------------------------------------------------------------------

 Intro movie
   
   The scene where the soldier shoots the civilian was all over TV news
   in the sixties.  A police official in Saigon had been directing his
   men in defense of the neighbrhood while the Americans were pulling
   out.  The NVA were entering the city and the Viet Cong had already
   started showing up everywhere.  As a TV crew filmed, he was informed
   that the bunker containing his family had been blown up.  A few
   minutes later, someone arrives with one of the VC sappers.  The
   cameraman expected the guy would want to confront him, so he films it
   -- and the policeman pulls out a .38 and blows him away in the street.

 Intro music

   It's a song called "Maybe" by a 40's band called the Ink Spots.
   
   More Inkspots trivia...
   -The guitar/uprightbass intro to the song is the same exact intro
    used in all but 3 of the InkSpots hits (thats over 35 songs).
   -The songs of the Inkspots are the most widely known songs of all
    time, yet the group who made them famous is virtually forgotten.
   -The founding president of the InkSpots fan club, from the age of
    nineteen until his death, was Redd Foxx of Sanford and Son fame.
    The club is now officiated by his son.
   -The name is often assumed to be racial in nature, but the band was
    given it's name by accident when they signed a contract for a
    performance one evening.  The man putting the billing on the
    marquis outside the theatre sent word to the manager that he didn't
    know what to call the opening act of the evening's amateur variety
    show.  The manager looked at the card, and it was so horribly
    smudged he blurted, "I can't read this thing! It's nothing but ink
    blots."  By the time it got back downstairs and out to the guy on
    the marquis, the name had become "Ink Spots".

 Bibliography for Fallout Scholars

    There are lots of allusions to Wasteland, and also various movies, 
    books, and TV shows, like for instance
      Road Warrior
      Brazil
      City of Lost Children
      Blade Runner
      Batman
      Ghost in the Shell
      On the Beach
      Star Wars
      Lord of Light
      South Park

      
 --- Tables -------------------------------------------------------------------

 Small Guns        Damage Range   Ammo                       Str  AP  Modes

10mm Pistol	    5-12    25    12 10mm JHP/AP	      3	   5	s
10mm SMG	    5-12    25	  30 10mm JHP/AP	      4	   5	sb
Desert Eagle .44    10-16   22     8 .44 magnum JHP/FMJ	      4    5    s
9mm Mauser	    5-10    22	   7 9mm ball		      3	   4	s
14mm Pistol	    12-22   24	   6 14mm AP		      4	   5	s
.223 Pistol	    20-30   30	   5 .223 FMJ		      5	   5	s

BB Gun		    1-3	    22	 100 BB's		      3	   5	s
LE BB Gun	    25      32	 100 BB's		      3	   4	s
Shotgun		    12-22   14	   2 12ga shot		      4	   5	s
Combat Shotgun	    15-25   22	  12 12ga shot		      5	   5	sb
Hunting Rifle	    8-20    40	  10 .233 FMJ		      5	   5	s
Sniper Rifle	    14-34   50	   6 .233 FMJ		      5	   6	s
Assault Rifle	    8-16    45	  24 5mm JHP/AP		      5	   6	sb

 Energy Weapons    Damage Range   Ammo                       Str  AP  Modes

Laser Pistol	    10-22   35	  12 SEC		      3	   5	s
Laser Rifle	    25-50   45	  12 MFC		      6	   5	s
Plasma Pistol	    15-35   20	  16 SEC		      4	   5	s
Plasma Rifle	    30-65   25	  10 MFC		      6	   5	s
Turbo Plasma	    35-70   35	  10 MFC		      6	   4	s
Alien Blaster	    30-90   10	  30 SEC		      2	   4	s
Gatling Laser	    20-40   40	  30 MFC		      6	   6	 b  

 Big Guns          Damage Range   Ammo                       Str  AP  Modes

Rocket Launcher	    35-100  40	   1 Explosive/AP Rocket      6	   6	s
Flamer		    45-90    5	   5 Flamethrower Fuel	      6	   6	 b
Minigun		    7-11    35	 120 5mm JHP/AP		      7	   6	 b

 Unarmed           Damage Range   Ammo                       Str  AP  Modes

Unarmed		    1-3	     1				      1	   3
Brass Knuckles	    2-6	     1				      1	   3
Spiked Knuckles	    4-11     1				      1	   3
Power Fist	    12-25    1	  25 SEC		      1	   3

 Melee             Damage Range   Ammo                       Str  AP  Modes

Knife		    1-7	     1				      2	   3	  wt
Throwing Knife	    3-6	     1				      3	   4	  w
Combat Knife	    3-11     1				      2	   3	  wt
Spear		    3-11     2				      4	   4	   t
Vibroblade	    15-33    1    30 SEC		      4	   4	  wt
Club		    1-7	     1				      3	   3	  w
Crowbar		    3-11     1				      5	   4	  w
Cattle Prod	    12-21    1    20 SEC		      4	   4	  wt
Sledgehammer	    4-10     2				      6	   4	  wt
Super Sledge	    18-37    2				      5	   3	  wt

 Throwing          Damage Range   Ammo                       Str  AP  Modes

Throwing Knife	    3-6	     9				      3	   5     T
Spear		    3-11     9				      4	   6 	 T
Molotov Cocktail    8-20     9				      3	   5	 T
Grenade (Frag)	    20-35    9				      3	   5	 T
Grenade (Plasma)    40-90    9				      3	   5	 T
Grenade (Pulse)	    100-150  9				      3	   5	 T

 Notes:
    A burst fires 1/3 of the ammo capacity -- e.g. a Gatling Laser
     holding 30 rounds fires 10 per burst.

    
 Armor                         norm laser  fire plasma explode

Leather Jacket	      AC  8    0/20  0/20  0/10  0/10  0/20     5 lb
Leather Armor	      AC 15    2/25  0/20  0/20  0/10  0/20     8 lb
Metal Armor	      AC 10    4/30  6/75  4/10  4/20  4/25    35 lb
Tesla Armor	      AC 15    4/20 19/90  4/10 10/80  4/20    35 lb
Combat Armor	      AC 20    5/40  8/60  4/30  4/50  6/40    20 lb
Brotherhood Armor     AC 20    8/40  8/70  7/50  7/60  8/40    25 lb
Power Armor	      AC 25   12/40 18/80 12/60 10/40 20/50    85 lb  +3 str
Hardened Power Armor  AC 25   13/50 19/90 14/70 13/50 20/60   100 lb  +3 str


 Weapon		Accuracy bonus

9mm Mauser 	+20 Accuracy
14mm Pisol	+20
Shotgun		+20
Combat Shotgun	+20
Hunting Rifle	+56
Assault Rifle	+28
Sniper Rifle	+56
Laser Rifle	+28
Alien Blaster	+20
Plasma Rifle	+36
Turbo Plasma	+?? (forgot to check this one)

These weapons add their accuracy to the user's skill level for a total %
to hit, then modified by distance (-4% every hex)


 --- Spoilers -----------------------------------------------------------------

   If you are reading through this, stop here!  Come back to this point
   if you get stuck on something.  Fallout is very replayable, but you
   can only play it for the first time once.

   There is nothing after this but spoilers.

   This is not a walkthrough.  There are a bazillion situations to get
   into, depending on your character and where you've been and what you're
   trying to do.  This is a digest of places people have gotten stuck and
   what they did about it.

   If you are stuck, skip ahead to the town or place you're stuck, and find
   a question that sounds like it's about your problem.  Or search for a
   question containing a key word about your problem.  Then skip ahead to
   that question and read just that answer, or part of it.

   Again, if you are not stuck, this is the place to quit.  Don't even
   look at the questions, they unavoidably disclose information.
   

(1)   Mini-spoilers
(1.1) How do these flare things work?
(1.2) What are these good for: tools, first aid kit, doctor bag, lockpicks?
(1.3) What are these good for: Scout Handbook, other books?
(1.4) What is Junk good for?
(1.5) What are bags and backpacks good for?
(1.6) How can I give my NPC buddies some good weapons?  Or more ammo?
(1.7) How can I give my NPC buddies some good armor?
(1.8) Do NPC's use stimpaks?
(1.9) How can I keep NPC's from shooting each other, charging off, etc?
   
(2)   Vault 15
(2.1) There is nothing here but a broken elevator.
(2.2) I walked all over the place and there is no water chip.

(3)   Shady Sands
(3.1) I lost my rope, or can't find one in the first place.
(3.2) Where can I find Ian?
(3.3) I gave Ian some good armor, but he won't use it.
(3.4) What is that farmer up to?
(3.5) How can I kill all those Radscorpions?
(3.6) The woman guard in Shady Sands says Tandi has been kidnapped but noooo.
(3.7) The mayor's daughter Tandi has been kidnapped.  How can I save her?
(3.8) Who is the Death Hand?
(3.9) When the game is over, I got a sad ending for the Raiders.

(4)   Junktown
(4.1) This Doc Morbid fellow is rather unpleasant, isn't he?
(4.3) How can I get that dog to let the guy Phil into his house?
(4.4) Where can I find Tycho?
(4.5) Killian's store doesn't have a lot to buy.
(4.6) Killian asked for help dealing with Gizmo.  How?
(4.7) Lars asked for help busting the Skulz gang.  How?
(4.8) Should I rent a room in the Crash House?
(4.9) The Junktown guards are after me.
(4.10) How do I save Sinthia from the crazed raider?
(4.11) What's all this about the boxer's girlfriend?
(4.12) Who is that Children of the Cathedral member?
(4.13) I want to rob Killian.  How?

(5)   Hub
(5.1) Where do I find Decker?
(5.2) This Iguana Bob fellow seems pleasant enough.
(5.3) What can I do at the Friendly Lending Company?
(5.4) What's the deal with the missing caravans?
(5.5) Who is this Vance guy in Old Town?
(5.6) Where can I get Rad-X?  Where can I buy drugs in general?
(5.7) Where can I get some lock picks?  How about an electronic lock pick?
(5.8) Where can I find a super sledge?
(5.9) Whenever I open this door in Old Town the people inside blow me away.
(5.10) How can I get a .223 pistol?
(5.11) How can I steal Hightower's necklace?
(5.121 I can't complete the quest to kill Hightower.
(5.13) Jain, the woman church elder in the hospital, has a talking head. Why?
(5.14) Where is the blasted water chip?
(5.15) When the game is over, I always get a sad ending for the Hub.

(6)   Necropolis
(6.1) There is nothing here but a run-down hotel.
(6.2) How to I fix the water pump?
(6.3) Where can I find Set?
(6.4) How can I free the caged glowing ones?
(6.5) The water shed is guarded, how can I get in?
(6.6) I've been captured and put in a cell.
(6.7) When the game is over, I got a sad ending for Necropolis.

(7)   Vault 13
(7.1) How do I calm the rebel faction?
(7.2) How do I catch the water thief?
(7.3) I brought the water chip back but I can't figure out what to do with it.

(8)   Glow
(8.1) There's nothing here but a crater.
(8.2) I can't get into the elevator, it keeps shocking me.
(8.3) I can't get through the door that's welded shut.
(8.4) How can I turn off the security robots?
(8.5) How can I turn off the traps?
(8.6) I can't get to level five.
(8.7) I did their stupid quest but the Brotherhood still won't let me in.
(8.8) I'm radiated, how can I cure it?
(8.9) I keep dying of radiation sickness.

(9)   Brotherhood
(9.1) How can I get past the gate guards?
(9.2) How can I get the quest to find the initiate?
(9.3) Where is the lost initiate?
(9.4) How can I get some power armor?
(9.5) How can I get a systolic motivator?
(9.6) How can I repair this armor?
(9.7) I can't leave combat mode to get into the supply room.

(10)  Boneyard
(10.1) How can I fix the hydroponic farm?
(10.2) I can't kill the Deathclaws.
(10.4) How can I save Jan Zimmerman, the mayor of Adytum?
(10.5) I killed all the Deathclaws but they're baack.
(10.6) How can I find the spy in the Followers?
(10.7) Who are those bounty hunter guys in the house behind the library?
(10.8) What is that alphabet soup Christine says?  (C D E D B D Ducks...)
(10.9) Where can I get a turbo plasma rifle?
(10.10) Where can I get hardened power armor?
(10.11) When I went back to talk to Razor she was dead, or just a bloodstain.
(10.12) When the game is over, I always get a sad ending for the Followers.

(11)  Military Base
(11.0) I can't find the military base.  Where is it?
(11.1) I can't get past the sentries.
(11.2) I can't get in the front door.
(11.3) The Brotherhood promised me Paladin assistance, where is it?
(11.4) What can I do with these computers?
(11.5) I can't get through the force fields.
(11.6) I turned off the force fields but they're still on.
(11.7) What is the deal with Mr. Handy?
(11.8) How can I repair the elevator that's out of order?
(11.9) I found this key, what does it do?
(11.10) I found this encryption decoder disk, what does it do?
(11.11) I found this security card, what does it do?
(11.12) Here I am the Vat Control Computer, now what?
(11.13) I blew up the base but then the game ended suddenly.

(12)  Cathedral
(12.1) How can I get in to the back room?
(12.2) How can I get through the secret door?
(12.3) How can I get to that dog Sasha behind the Cathedral?
(12.4) I keep getting killed!
(12.5) I got into the basement but it's just a library.
(12.6) What can I do with these computers?
(12.7) There's an elevator back there but I can't pick the door.
(12.8) When I walk down this grisly corridor I get nightmares.
(12.9) Whenever I free the prisoners, they die.
(12.10) Where can I find Tesla Armor?
(12.11) Where can I find the Master?
(12.12) How can I kill the Master?
(12.13) I blew up the Cathedral but then the game ended suddenly.

(13)  Misc
(13.1) I haven't found a water chip and the 150 days are about to run out.
(13.2) Vault 13 was overrun by mutants.
(13.3) If I have NPC's in my party, how are the experience points divided?
(13.4) How can I develop my character to level 21?
(13.5) Is there any way to, er, score?
(13.6) Combat tips
(13.7) How does bartering work?
(13.8) How do lockpicks work?
(13.9) What is fruit good for?
(13.10) What is Iguana On A Stick good for?
(13.11) What is Nuka-Cola good for?
(13.12) What are Beer and Booze good for?
(13.13) What is a Lighter good for?
(13.14) What is a Flower good for?
(13.15) What is a box of Instant Spagetti good for?
(13.16) Where are all the NPC's?
(13.17) Where is the mutant army?
(13.18) I'm addicted to drugs, what does that mean?
(13.19) How can I increase my stats?
(13.20) How can I increase my skills?
(13.21) What random encounters are out there?
(13.22) Why did my character act that way with the Overseer at the very end?


(1)   Mini-spoilers

(1.1) How do these flare things work?

    The manual explains how to light one.  You must drop or throw it
    for it to cast light.  You can pick it up afterward.

(1.2) What are these good for: tools, first aid kit, doctor bag, lockpicks?

    If you use them on some object, they enhance your skill at doing 
    that task.  You can pick locks with or without using lockpicks, but
    you'll succeed better with the picks.

(1.3) What are these good for: Scout Handbook, other books?

    Use them (hand cursor in inventory) to improve your skills.

(1.4) What is Junk good for?

    It's assorted spare parts.  There are some specific repairs you
    may be wanting to make where you have to find parts.

(1.5) What are bags and backpacks good for?

    Not much.  They can be used to reduce the size of your inventory list.
    To easily put stuff in a bag, put it in your active slot (hand) then
    drag and drop items into it.  Or drop them directly onto the bag
    in inventory.

    Quest items that are inside bags don't get seen by the game.
    Same with ammo.

    Putting your money in a bag allows you to drop and pick up more than 
    999 caps at once, handy if you want to keep your inventory sorted.
    If your money bag is open when you sell something, the caps go into
    the bag.

    Be careful using bags without the patch; there are v1.0 bugs here.

(1.6) How can I give my NPC buddies some good weapons?  Or more ammo?

    Barter, or you can steal and anti-steal freely from NPC's.
    You can give them things by clicking on them and holding, selecting
    the backpack, and choosing the thing you want to give.  With this
    method they'll tell you if it's something they can't use.    

    You can give them good melee weapons -- Ripper Vibroblade, for example.

(1.7) How can I give my NPC buddies some good armor?

    You can't.

(1.8) Do NPC's use stimpaks?

    Yes.  When they run low, give them more.

    They seem to use them less sparingly if they have a lot.

(1.9) How can I keep NPC's from shooting each other, charging off, etc?

    You can't.  If you initiate combat when they are in a reasonable
    formation they may stay there.  You can yourself move out of the
    way.  You can try to end combat at a good time.

    One of the conversation options asks them to change places with
    you.  Useful if they're blocking a doorway.

    Think twice before giving them automatic weapons.

    If you give them hand-to-hand weapons they won't be shooting
    so they won't be shooting you and each other.  With Power Fist 
    and Ripper Vibroblade they can beat up Super Mutants on their own.

(2)   Vault 15

(2.1) There is nothing here but a broken elevator.

    If you look at it (binoculars cursor) it says you might be able to
    get down it with a rope.  There are ropes in the town to the west.

(2.2) I walked all over the place and there is no water chip.

    The room containing the water chip has caved in.  When you see it,
    a message telling you this appears on the screen in the lower left.
    You also get 500 experience points.  You'll need to look farther
    afield for a water chip.

    You need to make some kind of Perception, Intelligence, or Science
    roll to realize this and get the 500 xp.

(3)   Shady Sands

(3.1) I lost my rope, or can't find one in the first place.

    The town guard (Seth) has one you can barter for.  There's one in
    the shed next to the farm you can pick up.  There's one in the
    southeast corner next to the wall.
   
(3.2) Where can I find Ian?

    In the guard house east of the gate.  He's the first NPC who will
    join you.

    You can hire him, or he might join you because he wants to.
    He'll like you more if you're sympathetic about his injury.

(3.3) I gave Ian some good armor, but he won't use it.

    Right.  You can give them better weapons, but not armor.
   
(3.4) What is that farmer up to?

    He's farming, on the eastern screen.  You should speak with him.

    If your stats are high enough (probably Intelligence) you can 
    tell him about crop rotation and get 500 xp.

(3.5) How can I kill all those Radscorpions?

    Grenades work wonders. 
    If Ian is with you, he's probably a much better shot than you are
     at this stage, just stay out of the line of fire.  
    Approach gradually, from somewhere only one Radscorpion at a time 
     notices you.
    Don't forget to take a tail back to Razlo, the doctor.  He'll
     make antivenom from it.  You can use antivenom on Seth's
     brother in the back room for xp.
   
    You can blow up the scorpion cave entrance with dynamite, which
     will wall them in and solve the quest.

(3.6) The woman guard in Shady Sands says Tandi has been kidnapped but
      she's still right there.

    This is a bug.  Ignore it.  If you leave town and return, she
    will probably have gotten kidnapped.  Foreshadowing.

(3.7) The mayor's daughter Tandi has been kidnapped.  How can I save her?

    If you don't have this quest, try leaving town and coming back, then
    talk to the mayor.

    Tandi is at the Raider camp a short distance southeast of town.

    You can barter for her.  You can talk to the leader and fight him
    one on one.  (This isn't necessarily hard, the prerolled Natalia 
    can win.)  When he surrenders, talk to him to end the fight.

    If your speech skill is very good you can convince the leader to let
    you take her away for nothing.
 
    You can attack the Raiders, people have reported better success
    starting in the middle and fighting your way out, or attacking
    from the back and waiting for the others to come to you.  Or you
    can skulk around the edges, firing through windows -- if you're
    careful and have a hunting rifle you can get every Raider before
    they come anywhere near you.

    The two slaves held by the Raiders are worth 200 xp each if they
    live through the battle.  Garl must die, other Raiders are optional.

    Try talking with Tandi before you learn about the Radscorpions
    from someone else.

(3.8) Who is the Death Hand?

    When you visit the Raider camp dressed in a leather jacket you
    are mistaken for the ghost of the leader's father.  Doesn't always
    happen.  You get lots of interesting new conversation options.
    (Death Hand is an Australian Mad Max.)

(3.9) When the game is over, I got a sad ending for the Raiders.

    The Raiders will continue to harass the area unless you kill their
    leader.

(4)   Junktown

(4.1) This Doc Morbid fellow is rather unpleasant, isn't he?

    Yes.  Snoop around in his basement.

    The locker will have better items if you have higher Luck.

    The local law is uninterested in hearing about Morbid but they
    do not intervene if you attack him, or he attacks you.

(4.3) How can I get that dog to let the guy Phil into his house?

    Ask Phil about the dog's former owner.  Or think about ways one can
    make friends with a dog.

    Either put on a leather jacket, or feed the dog.
    You can find some tasty iguanas in the hotel refrigerator.

    Or kill Phil, you will get 100 xp for "solving Phil's problem" 
    and Dogmeat will join up with you.

(4.4) Where can I find Tycho?

    He's in the bar, west side.

    Talk to him a couple of times.

    He won't be interested in joining if you didn't help Killian deal
    with the assasin.  Or if you do help Neal deal with the Skulz member.

(4.5) Killian's store doesn't have a lot to buy.

    There is different stuff for sale on the different tables.

(4.6) Killian asked for help dealing with Gizmo.  How?

    When you first meet Killian, a would-be assasin walks in and tries
    to shoot Killian.  If you help kill the assasin, Killian will
    appreciate it, and will ask for assistance in coping with Gizmo.
    You can go talk with Gizmo while carrying the tape recorder, if you
    get him to say something incriminating Killian will be able to cart
    him off to jail.  Alternatively if you're a good pickpocket you can
    reverse-pickpocket the bug onto Gizmo, then you don't need to obtain
    damaging conversation in person.

    If your initial conversation is unsatisfactory, go back to Gizmo and
    claim you did it but don't have the Killian's dog tags.  He'll cut
    loose with some really incriminating ultimatum.

    If you talk with Gizmo before Killian, he'll offer you the job to
    hit Killian right away.  Also if you don't help Killian against the
    assassin and then weasel out of assisting with Gizmo, you get put
    in jail and can escape (200xp) and be a fugitive.

(4.7) Lars asked for help busting the Skulz gang.  How?

    Taking the law into your own hands and exterminating them won't
    do it.  They hang out in rooms behind the hotel and at the Skum
    Pitt, the bar.  Leads can be found there, and in the hallway
    west of the hotel lobby.

    You might be able to infliltrate the gang.

    If you go to the bar in the evening or night and speak to Neal, after
    the conversation ends a Skulz gang member will insult the waitress
    and Neal will blow him away.  After this you can go talk to Vinnie,
    the gang leader, in their hangout in the back part of the Crash House
    hotel.  Vinnie offers to let you join if you'll steal the bar owner
    Neal's urn from the bar.  If you successfully do this, talk to Vinnie
    again and he will inform you of their plan to retaliate against Neal.
    You can now tell Lars all about it, optionally join him in fighting
    the Skulz, and optionally return Neal's urn.
    
    Another way is to talk with Sherry, the gang member in the hallway
    by the hotel lobby.  With good speech skills you can convince her
    to leave the gang, and over time, to testify against them.  You may
    need to hang around Junktown for a few days while she mulls things
    over.  You can rent a room in the hotel.

(4.8) Should I rent a room in the Crash House?

    Yes.  Spend a night there when you're done with the day.	

(4.9) The Junktown guards are after me.

    If you take the law into your own hands and just kill Gizmo or
    the Skulz they will not appreciate it.  They are very lawful.

    Here's another way it can happen: attempt to help Killian against
    his assassin and miss, hitting a guard.  Here's another way: try to
    steal Neal's urn and fail (even if he's not watching), then fight
    back when he attacks you and kill him.  The guards are not forgiving.
    Stay out of their way or leave town or kill them all or restore.

    It may be possible to save the situation.  War story: assassin
    attacks mayor, mayor shoots at assassin but accidentally hits player,
    Ian shoots mayor, mayor and guards shoot at Ian.  Player manages 
    to stay friends with town by helping kill Ian.  (Then restores.)

(4.10) How do I save Sinthia from the crazed raider?

    You won't get this quest unless you rent a room for a night in the
    Crash House.

    One solution is talk, talk, talk.  You may be able to buy her
    freedom, or with a high speech skill, convince him to leave 
    peacefully.

    Some people were successful killing him before he could shoot
    Sinthia, but you have to be very good.  Good sneakers can get
    around behind him, making this easier.

    Sinthia gets upset with you if your character is male and kills
    the raider. If your party members kill the raider, she's ok.

(4.11) What's all this about the boxer's girlfriend?

    When the Skulz member hits the barmaid, she yells out a name, when
    you ask her, she tells you the name belongs to her boyfriend the boxer.
    Or you can talk to Neal and get him to mention her name.

    After that, talking with the boxer about his life in Junktown 
    sometimes finds him having rough times with his girlfriend.
    You get 250 xp if you help smooth it out.

(4.12) Who is that Children of the Cathedral member?

    If you go back to Junktown later in the game, there's a CoC person
    in one of the houses.

    There's a guy standing around (near Lars?) who will tell you that
    a CoC member took over his friend's house.  Talking with Lars, the
    concerned friend, and the CoC member produced nothing revealing.

    You can blow him up with dynamite without agitating the cops.

(4.13) I want to rob Killian.  How?

    There is a safe in Killian's private quarters.

    You get 500 xp for robbing it.  To do this easily, break into his
    room at night and hide there until he leaves the next morning.

(5)   Hub

(5.1) Where do I find Decker?

    In the Maltese Falcon, downtown west side.

    Speak with Kane, the guy guarding the door on the south side of
    the bar.  ("Cleansing the world" is an interesting conversation
    path.)

    You can, btw, accept both of the quests that Decker offers and
    complete them to get the cash and xp, and then go to the police
    afterwards and still get to bust Decker and collect the cash and
    xp for that quest as well.

    If you care about positive Karma, you can pick fights with your
    victims and let your NPC's deal with it.

(5.2) This Iguana Bob fellow seems pleasant enough.

    Go snoop around Doc Morbid's in Junktown.

    You can extort money from Iguana Bob but apparently the local law
    in both Junktown and the Hub is not interested.  If you kill IB,
    or incite him to attack you, they will go after you, not him.

    Extortion lowers your Karma.

(5.3) What can I do at the Friendly Lending Company?

    You can try to rob the bank, and you can kill the loan shark without
    agitating the cops.

    You can get an introduction to Decker, too.

(5.4) What's the deal with the missing caravans?

    Read the billboard in south central downtown then go speak with the
    people at Far Go Trading.

    They'll send you to Beth, who will send you to Harold and Slappy in
    Old Town.

    Slappy can take you to the Deathclaw lair.  You must then go talk
    with Butch again, fail miserably to convince him, and then show
    the mutant's holodisk to Rutger to solve the quest.

(5.5) Who is this Vance guy in Old Town?

    The arms dealer in Oldtown will tell you what he does if you follow
    the "What is radiation?" line of conversation.

(5.6) Where can I get Rad-X?  Where can I buy drugs in general?

    There's a dealer in the east side of Old Town named Vance.
   
    If he won't talk to you, you can get an introduction from Lemmie
    the shady character walking around downtown.  If you pull a gun 
    and choose intimidating conversation he will (maybe) provide the
    introduction free.

(5.7) Where can I get some lock picks?  How about an electronic lock pick?

    Explore Old Town, there's a basement to check out.

    In a house in the middle east side, there's a stairway to the lair
    of the Thieves' Circle.  You have to pick some doors and dodge some
    traps to get there, but if you do, ask to join and they'll provide
    some picks.  Loxley has terrific conversation paths, save the game
    and experiment.

    If you successfully get initiated your reward includes an electronic
    pick.

    There's an electronic lock pick on the top floor of the Cathedral.
    There's a set of lock picks in Garl's fridge in the Raider camp,
     and also one in the Boneyard, in the Deathclaw lair.
    You can buy lock picks from Mitch in the Hub.  Or you can steal
     one from Jasmine's friend at the entrance to the thieves' circle.
    If you tag the Lockpick skill you start the game with a set.

    Both electronic and regular picks can break if your skill is too low.

(5.8) Where can I find a super sledge?

    Jake the arms dealer in old town will have one for sale if you ask 
    if he has something with a little more power.
    
(5.9) Whenever I open this door in Old Town the people inside blow me away.

    They're holding someone prisoner in the back room.

(5.10) How can I get a .223 pistol?

    Speak with Irwin, south edge of downtown.  If he doesn't ask you to
    help him out, your character level is too low.

(5.11) How can I steal Hightower's necklace?

    A little reconnaissance first is a good idea.

    If you go at night, you can creep around the back of his house
    and wait for the guard to walk away to check out the front.
    Hightower and his wife are in bed and won't disturb your burgling.

    Check the strongbox for traps before trying to open it.  (It
    is trapped).  In fact there seem to be quite a few traps on it.

    The best time to go is 6pm.

(5.12) I can't complete the quest to kill Hightower.

    If you agreed to kill Hightower for Decker, then went to the cops,
    the quest will show	up on your PIPboy but is unsolvable since
    Decker's dead.  It's not a problem.  

    When you first talk with Decker, you can discuss the matter and then
    decline the job; he does not get offended and you can then turn him
    in as before, without Hightower getting added to the list.

    Or if you wish to kill both Hightower and Decker, you must do
    Hightower first so you can report to Decker while he's still alive.

(5.13) Jain, the woman church elder in the hospital, has a talking head. Why?

    She's involved in a quest you may get from Decker.
    It follows the Hightower quest.

    Also if you kill the Master, look at your PIPboy for new quests
    in the Hub.

(5.14) Where is the blasted water chip?

    Speak with the Water Merchants.  They will want to sell you a water
    caravan trip, but you'll get a lead to another place to check out.

    Also, ask the librarian about holodisks.

    Vault 12 is in Necropolis.

(5.15) When the game is over, I always get a sad ending for the Hub.

    Me too.  Nobody has reported a way to get a happy ending for the Hub.

    But if you finish very rapidly (86 days was sufficient) you don't
    get the sad ending, or any ending.

(6)   Necropolis

(6.1) There is nothing here but a run-down hotel.

    You can use the sewer system to get to other parts of the city.

(6.2) How to I fix the water pump?

    The missing parts are in the northeastern part of the sewers under
    the watershed.  Look for Junk.

    You have to use the Junk on the water pump to repair it.

(6.3) Where can I find Set?

    In Necropolis Hall, upstairs from the middle parts of the sewers.
    Worth checking out.

    He'll send you on a quest, maybe.  And burn you afterward.
    Things might be different for evil characters.

    If you happen to have accomplished the quest on your own, he
    still rewards you.

(6.4) How can I free the caged glowing ones?

    There's a switch on the wall that opens the cells.

    [Ed.: I read it on the net so it must be true, but nobody has
    been able to find it aside from the original posting.]

(6.5) The water shed is guarded, how can I get in?

    Harry the door guard is very stupid, you may be able to con him.
    Or you might be able to sneak behind his back.

    When Harry accosts you, tell him you're a ghoul, or if you don't
    have that option, a robot.

    Tricky method: Player pisses off Harry who shoots.  Player scoots 
    out door (which is nearby) and down manhole south of door, still in
    combat mode.  Then, leaving combat mode and returning to the city
    map, Harry is outside the shed and doesn't object to player entering
    and doing whatever he wants.

(6.6) I've been captured and put in a cell.

    Good luck to you.  I didn't make it, myself.  Few have reported
    success, but there were some amazing tries.  It's possible to make 
    it to safety -- in your second game you'll probably be able to do it.
    Search your cell, and save a lot.

(6.7) When the game is over, I got a sad ending for Necropolis.

    It is possible to get a happy ending.  I suspect it might depend on
    how long it takes to eliminate the mutant threat.  You must leave
    them with a working water supply.  It does not depend on whether you
    kill the mutants in the watershed, or whether you kill some or all
    of the ghouls.

(7)   Vault 13

(7.1) How do I calm the rebel faction?

    You get this quest when you return to vault 13 and talk to the
    unhappy citizens on level 2.
    It gets crossed off if you return the water chip.

    The rebels will be dealt with by Vault security at some time
    before day 150, so if you return to vault 13 rather late they
    may not be there any more.

    You can talk to the leader and perhaps talk her out of it.
    You can attend the rebel meeting and exterminate them.
    
(7.2) How do I catch the water thief?

    You get this quest when you return to vault 13 and talk to some people
    on level 2 and the guard outside the storeroom on level 3.
    It gets crossed off if you return the water chip.

    Hide someplace and wait until midnight and watch what happens.

    You have to accost the thief after he steals the water.

(7.3) I brought the water chip back but I can't figure out what to do with it.

    Talk to the overseer, he's on the pedestal on Level 3.

(8)   Glow

(8.1) There's nothing here but a crater.

    If you arrived at night, you may not have seen it -- there's a beam you
    can tie a rope to and climb down into the crater.

(8.2) I can't get into the elevator, it keeps shocking me.

    There's a key card on one of the corpses, the guy in power armor.
    Use it on the elevator.

    It's also possible to disarm the trap and lockpick the door.	   

(8.3) I can't get through the door that's welded shut.

    You're too weak.  Once I set off a nearby explosive trap and the
    door opened after that.  Once I tried dynamite and nothing changed.
    You don't miss anything world-shaking if you can't get through this
    door.

(8.4) How can I turn off the security robots?

    The master computer on level 4 can do this if it likes you.  
    Ask for mainframe mode.
    You can make it like you more by flattering it, and by playing chess
    with it.

    It's a lot easier to get into mainframe mode when the power is on.
    
    You can shoot and kill deactivated robots.
    You can steal their weapons when they're turned off.

(8.5) How can I turn off the traps?

    The master computer on level 4 can do this too.
    Ask for mainframe mode and shut off the security systems.
    
(8.6) I can't get to level five.

    The screen in the lower left says why -- you need to turn on the
    power.  That's on level 6.  Using tools boosts your repair skill.

    Turning off the emergency power makes it easier to repair the
    generator.  A 40% repair skill will do it, and there are a couple
    of Electronics books in the Glow which will boost you ~14%, so
    you're ok with a starting repair skill of ~30%, but less is trouble.

(8.7) I did their stupid quest but the Brotherhood still won't let me in.

    You must return the actual holodisk you found on level 1.
    Just having it in your PIPboy isn't enough.

(8.8) I'm radiated, how can I cure it?

    The doctor in the Brotherhood can cure you.  Vault 13 too.
    Rad-Away will remove it over time.

(8.9) I keep dying of radiation sickness.

    There's a drug dealer in the Hub, in Oldtown, who will sell you
    Rad-X.  Two of those will give you 100% radiation resistance.
    Radiation you got before taking them, you still have.

    Rad-Away will reduce your contamination level.  The Brotherhood
    doctor can unradiate you.

(9)   Brotherhood

(9.1) How can I get past the gate guards?

    You must join up.  Talk to both guards.
   
    You can pick the lock using an electronic pick -- the guards
    don't mind.  This is probably a bug, they do mind if you try
    to pick it manually or with ordinary picks.

    Or you can kill the guards.  Be ready for a fight if you do this.

(9.2) How can I get the quest to find the initiate?

    You get it by talking to Talus, in the training room on level 1.
    Ask him about high-tech weapons.
    Possibly you don't get asked unless you have high speech or karma.

(9.3) Where is the lost initiate?

    In the Hub, northwest part of Old Town, imprisoned by thugs
    in a house.

(9.4) How can I get some power armor?

    You can get Brothehood Combat Armor just by asking Talus.

    Kyle, doing repair work on level 3, will give you a repairable
    suit if you find a necessary component.

    You can get power armor from Talus as a reward for freeing the
    initiate imprisoned at the Hub.  You need good karma to be
    offered power armor among the rewards.

    You can steal power armor from the supply room, but will then
    be at war with the Brotherhood.

    Michael the quartermaster only remembers three things to give
    you, so collect old rewards before getting new ones.

(9.5) How can I get a systolic motivator?

    You can con one out of Michael, the quartermaster, if your speech
    skill is up to it.

    You can steal one from Rhombus, in his office on level 1.    
    Don't go into his office with a motivator, he will react as if
    you stole it even if it's not his.

(9.6) How can I repair this armor?

    You need high repair skill, 75% works.  High luck can work too.
    Repeated tries at 40% skill using tools worked.

(9.7) I can't leave combat mode to get into the supply room.

    If you try to conquer the Brotherhood, you can kill everybody
    on level 1 but there are difficulties with the locked supply room.
    You can't leave combat mode because the hostile enemies inside
    are too close, and you are not allowed to use a lockpick in combat.

    One solution is to use your picks from inventory, which you are
    allowed to do.

    Another is to pick the door before you start the war.  One player
    wanted to get power armor without having to go to the Glow at all.
    You can kill the guards at the entrance and open the elevator with
    an electronic lockpick, then you start off level 1 at war.

(10)  Boneyard

(10.1) How can I fix the hydroponic farm?

    You get this quest by talking to Miles, the chemist in Adytum.
    Miles and Smitty will be willing to do you favors afterward.

    The guy with the missing parts was killed by Deathclaws, he's
    in the abandoned theater where they live.

    On your first trip there, or first day, or something, there's a
    dead Merchant in the center east part of the map.  At some point 
    he becomes a bloodstain.  That is the guy with the missing parts
    -- they're called Junk.

(10.2) I can't kill the Deathclaws.

    Some tactics people succeeded with: laser or plasma shots to
    their legs can cripple them, slowing them down enough that
    you can back away and shoot and they can't close.

    A good hand-to-hand fighter with spiked knuckles hitting them
    in the eyes does a lot of damage.  Combat Armor and a Power Fist
    would help more.  Have plenty of stimpaks.

    Power armor and a shotgun or combat shotgun worked.  A sniper
    rifle and 200% small arms skill did the job with no trouble.

(10.4) How can I save Jan Zimmerman, the mayor of Adytum?

    You can't.

    If you give him the tape, he will attack the Regulators and die.
    If you attack the Regulators, alone or with the Blades, he will
    fight on their side.
   
    To give him the tape you need to actually have it in your
    inventory, not just a record in your PIPboy.

    Several ingenious attempts to save Zimmerman were posted. 
    The best: station NPC's to protect Smitty and Miles (they stay
    where they are when dismissed, but still fight on your side).
    Go play the tape for Zimmerman, and immediately hit A to enter
    combat before the Regulator can kill Zimmerman.  Kill the 
    Regulator.  This starts the Adytown war.  Zimmerman fights
    on your side.  But when you end combat Zimmerman attacks you.

(10.5) I killed all the Deathclaws but they're baack.

    Kill them all again and then explore the theater completely, in
    daylight.

    There's a stairway leading to the basement.  Explore there too.

    You have to kill not just the Mother Deathclaw but also the eggs.

(10.6) How can I find the spy in the Followers?

    Speak with the ghoul in the basement of the library to find out
    about the spy.

    There is no way to find or deal with the spy -- it was removed
    from the game.  It's a bug.  This probably also means there's
    nothing you can do to keep the Followers from being exterminated.

(10.7) Who are those bounty hunter guys in the house behind the library?

    They'll go after you if you're a notorious villain.

(10.8) What is that alphabet soup Christine says?  (C D E D B D Ducks...)
    
    Read it aloud.
    
    C D E D B D Ducks!		See the itty bitty ducks!
    M R Not Ducks!		Them are not ducks!
    O S A R! C D E D B D Wings! Oh yes they are! See the itty bitty wings!
    O I B M R Ducks		Oh I be! Them are ducks!

    It's a Wasteland reference, to Ellen in Quartz.
    
(10.9) Where can I get a turbo plasma rifle?

    Fix the hydroponic farm for Miles in Adytum, then talk to Smitty.

(10.10) Where can I get hardened power armor?

    Fix the hydroponic farm for Miles in Adytum, then talk to Miles.

(10.11) When I went back to talk to Razor she was dead, or just a bloodstain.

    There can be continuity problems in this part of the game.
    If you've taken on the Regulators, make sure they're all dead before
    worrying about Razor.

    If you try to take the tape to Zimmerman you'll get into a fight
    with the Regulators.  Perhaps some of the ways it can turn out
    involve them going up and killing Razor.  But if you wipe out all the
    Regulators, Razor will appear alive and well at the town entrance.

(10.12) When the game is over, I always get a sad ending for the Followers.

    Me too.  Nobody has reported a way to get a happy ending.

    But if you finish very rapidly (86 days was sufficient) you don't
    get the sad ending, or any ending.

(11)  Military Base

(11.0) I can't find the military base.  Where is it?

    Go due northwest from the Brotherhood.

    Set the ghoul leader in Necropolis Hall knows where it is,
    he can light it up on your map.  The only way I know to get
    him to be willing to do this is to kill the Master.

(11.1) I can't get past the sentries.

    If you have a radio, or steal one from a guard, you can use it
    to fake a distress call that draws off 3 of the 4 guards.

    If you ask nicely at the Brotherhood, they'll send a team of
    crack assault paladins with you.  (They meet you there.)

    If you wear a Cathedral robe, you can try to con your way in.

(11.2) I can't get in the front door.

    To pick it, you need an electronic pick.  To get that, you need to
    find and join the Thieves' Guild in the Hub.

    Steal from, or search the body of, the door guard to find a clue.

    He has jotted down the combination on a holodisk.

(11.3) The Brotherhood promised me Paladin assistance, where is it?

    They show up when you go up to the base.  They won't go inside
    with you, they just help with the outside sentries.

(11.4) What can I do with these computers?

    The Mach IV computers won't do anything for you.  Other computers
    may, if you're good at Science.

    One can be used to more or less shut off the sentry robots.
    One can be used to control the force fields.

    Not only can you make the robots stop attacking you, but if you tell
    the computer to have the robots kill LARGE pests (I think that's the
    setting), the robots will kill some of the mutants for you.

(11.5) I can't get through the force fields.

    The red force fields can't be disabled and don't need to be, you
    can walk through them.

    The yellow force fields can be disabled by using your repair skill
    on the force field generators, if you're good enough.  Tools help.

    Explosives will toast the generators and lower the fields.

    A computer in the southeast corner of level 1 controls them.

(11.6) I turned off the force fields but they're still on.

    The force field computer is in the southeast part of level 1.
    If you have a high Science skill you can get it to turn off the
    fields, but only momentarily.

    Look at that computer (binoculars).

    You can use a radio on it to set up remote control.

(11.7) What is the deal with Mr. Handy?

    A cleaning robot which you can repair or something, which will
    blunder into the Vat room force field and blow up, destroying the
    force field emitter.

(11.8) How can I repair the elevator that's out of order?

    You can't.  If you get captured and brought to the Lieutenant,
    he will want to drop you in the vats but can't because the elevator
    isn't working so you get imprisoned instead.

(11.9) I found this key, what does it do?

    Arms the bomb under the Cathedral.

(11.10) I found this encryption decoder disk, what does it do?

    Unknown.  I think it should be used on the Vat Control Computer
    somehow but wasn't able to make anything happen.

(11.11) I found this security card, what does it do?

    Operates the Vat Control Computer.

(11.12) Here I am the Vat Control Computer, now what?

    If your science skill is too low to operate it, get a security card
    from one of the techs.

(11.13) I blew up the base but then the game ended suddenly.

    You must escape from the base, getting all the way out to the world map.

(12)  Cathedral

(12.1) How can I get in to the back room?

    Help is available up at the Boneyard, check out the Followers in
    the Boneyard.

    If you speak politely to Lasher he'll give you a pass.

    If you speak with Nicole, the Follower leader, and ask for help she'll
    tell you about Laura in the Cathedral who can help.

    Explosives will open it.

(12.2) How can I get through the secret door?

    It's behind the altar.  You need a black key.

    Morpheus on the top floor has it.
    
    Excellent lockpickers have been able to pick the door.
    You can wait until evening and follow Morpheus in.
    Explosives will open it.

(12.3) How can I get to that dog Sasha behind the Cathedral?

    You can't.  She is the producer's dog.  Sasha is often around
    somewhere in Interplay games.

(12.4) I keep getting killed!

    Wear a purple robe and Nightkin won't attack.  (Unless you
    have NPC's with you.)

    There are some unoccupied robes up in the Boneyard, in the
    middle of the Followers' library.

    There's also one in the Hub hospital, in the locked room.

(12.5) I got into the basement but it's just a library.

    There is a secret door.

    You can use your Traps skill on the bookcase next to it and
    find a hidden lever.  Then just use the Hand icon on the bookcase
    and the secret door will open.

    Or if you hang around for a while someone will come out through
    the door and you can go in.  If he sees you, you may need to do
    some fast talking or fight him.

(12.6) What can I do with these computers?

    Not a lot.  The Mach IV computers won't do anything for you.
    Other computers will tell you about the existence of a secret
    base (and give you some experience points).

(12.7) There's an elevator back there but I can't pick the door.

    Regular lock picks don't help on this door, but an electronic
    pick will.

    It's a game balance thing.  Thief-type characters who have been
    sandpapering their fingertips and honing their con-artist skills
    would be turned to mincemeat by the guards, so can use this back
    door.  Others can't.

    It leads to a bomb in the basement.  The bomb will be detonated
    when the Master dies whether you go down there or not.

(12.8) When I walk down this grisly corridor I get nightmares.

    The Master is attacking you psychically.  It does serious stat
    damage.  Have you talked with the mad scientists on level 2?

    They've invented a Psychic Nullifier to prevent their nut cases
    from broadcasting.

    Talk with the guys locked in a room in the northwest of level 2.
    One of them can give you a nullifier, or you can maybe steal one, 
    or you can murder them.

(12.9) Whenever I free the prisoners, they die.

    Sure enough.  No known way to prevent this.

(12.10) Where can I find Tesla Armor?

    In a footlocker on the top floor of the Cathedral.  It's the best
    armor against energy weapons, but power armor is better otherwise.

(12.11) Where can I find the Master?

    He's on level 3 under the Cathedral.  You have to get through the
    door behind the altar.

    Morpheus has a key to that door (see 12.2).

    If you talk with Morpheus and tell him you have information for
    the Master (without referring to him as "your" Master), Morpheus
    will teleport you directly there.

(12.12) How can I kill the Master?

    He's immobile.  If you have a long range weapon, you can shoot him
    and he can't shoot back.  

    Explosives are pretty effective too -- one guy ran up, left a huge
    pile of armed explosives under him (you can do this in a single
    inventory access) and took cover behind a pillar.

    Another guy used a Power Fist and found it worked better than
    shooting at the Master.

    If you talked with Vree about mutant science, and she gave you a
    holodisk describing the results of her autopsies, you can convince
    the Master to commit suicide.

    War story: Player approaches down the side of the room, trying 
    to sneak around behind him.  Master fires, hitting defense robot.
    Robots attack Master.  Player hides behind pillar, dealing with
    mutant troops that swarm in while robots continue to attack and
    eventually kill Master.

(12.13) I blew up the Cathedral but then the game ended suddenly.

    You must escape, getting all the way out to the world map.

(13)  Misc

(13.1) I haven't found a water chip and the 150 days are about to run out.

    The Water Merchants in the Hub will send 100 days worth of water
    for $2000.  However, if you've run across the mutants in Necropolis
    you may think that revealing the location of your Vault may
    not be the best thing to do.

(13.2) Vault 13 was overrun by mutants.

    The mutant army is actively searching for humans to convert.  They
    will find the Vault eventually.  You have to take care of them before
    they find it.

    You must destroy the Master before day 500, or day 400 if you sent
    a water caravan.  (That helps them locate the vault.)  

    This time limit is present in v1.0 only, it's removed in v1.1.

(13.3) If I have NPC's in my party, how are the experience points divided?

    You get the same experience whether you're alone or with others.
    On the other hand NPC's don't gain levels or skills.

(13.4) How can I develop my character to level 21?

    People have mentioned a couple of ways: fight the Deathclaws in
    the Boneyard again and again without killing off their Mother,
    they're worth 1000 xp each.  Or fight super mutant patrols around
    the military base.

    Death Claws respawn in about an hour.

(13.5) Is there any way to, er, score?

    After rescuing Sinthia in the Junktown hotel, talk with her and 
    urge her to move on with her life.

    If you're male, speak with Keri, the woman who gives out caravan 
    assignments at Crimson Caravan in the Hub.

    There's no way to get a date with the Brotherhood guard at the
    entrance to level 1 -- if you're male and charismatic he's not
    interested, if you're male and ugly he's *really* not interested,
    if you're female the conversation turns into a sisterhood thing.
        
(13.6) Combat tips

    When fighting animals, which attack hand to hand, shoot and move
    away so they have to move to attack again -- this uses up their
    action points and can cost them an attack or two.

    When fighting male humans hand to hand, hitting them in the balls
    is really effective.

    A sniper rifle at extreme range allows you to shoot at enemies
    who can't shoot back.  If you aim at their legs and succeed at
    crippling them, they can't move fast enough to close in.

    A ripper or super sledge in combination with a gun allows you to
    do this: hit them with the melee weapon and they'll get knocked
    back and probably on the ground.  Now you can shoot with a huge
    bonus to hit, and can hit the eyes at 95% even with mediocre skill.

    If you steal from someone and get caught, you can run away rather
    than get embroiled in a big fight.  Works best if there are not
    too many people nearby.

    If you plan a campaign of mass extermination, it's a whole lot
    easier if you first trot around and steal everybody's stimpaks,
    extra ammo, and if possible, weapons.

    If you should happen to encounter a crowd of mutants somewhere,
    and are wearing power armor, run into the crowd, ideally next
    to somebody with a rocket launcher.  They'll do much more harm
    to each other than to you.  Or, in the military base or cathedral, 
    wear robes and plant ticking dynamite on one member of the crowd.

    Or, also fun in crowds of mutants, try a character with Fast Shot
    and Bonus HtH and a Super Sledge.

(13.7) How does bartering work?

    The base price is determined by comparing your Barter skill with
    the Barter skill of the NPC, along with the NPC's reaction to you
    and in some cases a store-specific modifier (some stores are more
    expensive than others).  NPC reactions are based on your Charisma
    and your reputation.  Some NPC's favor positive reputations, others
    negative.	

    The price of goods sold doesn't depend on skill.
    For buying, skill 30 gets decent prices, skill 10 gets you robbed.

(13.8) How do lockpicks work?

    Lockpicks usually add +20% to your chance of success.  On some doors,
    they offset a penalty for not having lockpicks (-30, -40, or more).

(13.9) What is fruit good for?

    It heals you a few points.

(13.10) What is Iguana On A Stick good for?

    You can give it to animals to feed them.

(13.11) What is Nuka-Cola good for?

    You can get addicted to it.  Just like real life!

(13.12) What are Beer and Booze good for?

    You can drink them and lose a little Perception for a while.

(13.13) What is a Lighter good for?

    Unknown.

(13.14) What is a Flower good for?

    Unknown.

(13.15) What is a box of Instant Spagetti good for?

    Unknown.
   
(13.16) Where are all the NPC's?

    Ian in Shady Sands.
    Dogmeat and Tycho in Junktown.
    Tandi at the Raider camp.
    Katja in the Boneyard.

    Katja can use all one-handed guns, not only an SMG as she says.
    And she can pick locks, talk to her in front of a locked door.
    
(13.17) Where is the mutant army?

    Offstage.  There is a large army gradually taking over the world,
    or at least Southern California, much too big to fight.  You never
    see it, just its effects.

(13.18) I'm addicted to drugs, what does that mean?

    Drugs act in three stages: they increase some of your stats above
    normal for a while, then they decrease them below normal, then they
    return to normal.  If you're addicted they don't return to normal
    until the addiction wears off.

(13.19) How can I increase my stats?

    Drugs increase them temporarily.

    The Brotherhood surgeon can increase most of them, for a price.
	Strength	$2k	3wks
	Perception	$4k	1wk
	Endurance	$3k	1wk
	Intelligence	$6k	3wks
	Agility		$5k	3wks
    If you're very dimwitted you can get an intelligence boost for
    half price.

    Chuck, the gypsy fortuneteller in Adytum, can increase your Luck.
    Get your fortune told.  Don't offend him.  (There are two different
    conversation paths that lead to fortune.)

    Patrick the Celt, a wandering bard you meet in the mountains, can
    increase your Charisma.  Ask him to sing a song in Gaelic.
    Save first, it seems to be random whether you get the topic.

    Being radiated and not dying increases your stats.  This is a bug
    in v1.0 only, it's fixed by the v1.1 patch.

    You can have more than 10 action points.  There are only ten lights
    on the combat display but e.g. if you have 11 AP and use 2 it will
    show that you have 9 left.

(13.20) How can I increase my skills?

    MacRae, the door guard at Blades HQ in the Boneyard, will teach
    you combat skills if you make life safe for the Blades.
    It won't help skills that are already high, maybe 91%.

    The first time you talk to Talus, in the gym on Brotherhood level 1,
    if you just stand inside the room and watch the training going on,
    you'll pick up +5% melee and +5% unarmed skill.  You need to be
    patient and watch the trainer go blah blah blah 'Do not extend
    yourself' etc.  At the end of training, you will also gain 500 exp.

    Vree, the head Brotherhood scribe on level 3, can give you a
    computer course that gives you +15% science skill.

    The library in Vault 13 contains a computer study course that 
    can give you 300-400 xp.  If your character is very young you
    might spend time "browsing the inter-web" and get nothing.

    The Hub library has lots of books for sale; you can increase your
    skills up to 91% with books, if you have the cash.  If you turn
    down the game difficulty the limit is higher -- 101 for normal
    or 121 for easy.

(13.21) What random encounters are out there?

    High Luck and Perception get you lots of random encounters.
    These are known:
     Crashed UFO (alien blaster and picture of Elvis)
     Tardis (motion detector)
     Godzilla's footprint (stealth boy)
     Bob's Used Cars (regular and LE BB guns)
     Overturned Truck (caps)  (luck 8: $5k, luck 10: $10k)
     Patrick the Celt (charisma)
     Talking Brahmins (unknown)
       [these are "the Snow Cows from Darker Realms", a MUD Tim Cain
        used to play in.  He "used to enjoy teleporting them into
	one of the other wizard's workroom."]

    Patrick is seen in the mountains, the others the desert, or
    sometimes city.

    Other encounters have no "prize" and can be bad:
      Raiders
      Town Guards (Hub, Junktown, Brotherhood, whatever's nearby)
      Caravan (you can join if they're going your way)
      Raiders attacking something (civilians, guards, other raiders)
      Animals (all kinds, rats up to deathclaws, and praying mantises)
      Animals attacking animals
      Lone peasant, deathclaw ate the caravan he was guarding
      Fisherman and his son (only by the seashore)

(13.22) Why did my character act that way with the Overseer at the very end?

    Your character fires if you took Bloody Mess or are evil (negative
    reputation or Berserker or Childkiller).


 --- Cheap Tricks -------------------------------------------------------------

   Note: some of these may not behave the same after the v1.1 patch.

   The gun runners will give you a discount if you take care of their
   Deathclaw problem.  You can then buy something and sell it right
   back for more.  Repeat until tired.

   The same thing works with any NPC if your barter skill is better than
   theirs.  Also steal/save/reload can result in NPC's having new money
   to steal.

   Again at the gun runners: finish the Deathclaw quest, go talk to the
   Gunrunners' leader, you get 1000 xp.  Talk to him again, and he'll
   think you haven't finished the quest.  Move to another map, move back,
   talk to him again, get another 1000 xp.  Repeat until tired.
   This doesn't work in v1.1.

   In the Hub, Oldtown: talk to Slappy and ask him to take you to the
   Deathclaw cave (800 xp).  Optionally kill Deathclaw.  Return to town,
   return to Slappy, ask again (800 xp).  Repeat until tired.
   This doesn't work in v1.1.

   In the Boneyard, Blades hangout: after the Regulators are defeated,
   talk to Michael, the intense young man in the first room.  Turn down
   his offer to reward you and he'll give you stimpaks and caps.  Repeat.
   Also, your karma goes up by one each time you do this.

   If Iguana Bob has agreed to buy your silence, you can collect your
   weekly payment over and over again.  Your karma goes down each time.
   This one doesn't work in v1.1.

   If you took Gifted, choose the Mutate! perk and change it to something
   else, you lose the -10% skill penalty but don't lose the stat bonus.
   This one doesn't work in v1.1.

   The door at Killian's store is open at 0600 but Killian isn't up yet.
   You can walk in and help yourself.  This doesn't work in v1.1.

   You can barter with Vance the drug dealer even if his conversation
   has told you to get lost.  Maybe this is true of all NPC's who are
   mad at you.

   NPC's will accept stuff via barter without checking their weight
   limit.  You can give them arbitrary loads of loot this way.

   If some conversation path that can offer experience does not come up
   in dialog, you can get the experience anyway by using the 'tell me
   about' box.  For instance mentioning crop rotation to the Shady Sands
   farmer gets you 500 xp even when it doesn't come up in conversation.

   At the Glow, get really radiated before returning.  On the way back
   you get massive stat losses due to radiation but then massive permanent
   stat gains.  How radiated to get is not clear, people have lived with
   999 rems on the geiger counter and died with 600.  Save and experiment. 
   This is a bug in v1.0 only, it's fixed in the v1.1 patch.
   
   To steal the Systolic Motivator from Rhombus, if you can't get away
   with it by normal means: take it and drop it somewhere before he
   catches you.  Get him to let you off with a warning.  Pick it up
   and leave.  Avoid him after that, he'll throw you out.  Or when you
   steal it, pop it in a bag, you'll keep it when he evicts you.
   Or enter combat mode (A key) when Rhombus hears you and escape.
   If you have enough APs, enter combat mode to get into his room during
   the day, steal the motivator, and leave.  He never even blinks.

   A similar method can be used to steal Hightower's necklace
   painlessly.  If you go in the daytime, a high speech skill will
   allow you to talk your way past the guards.  You can then enter
   combat mode when you get near the door to Hightower's office, walk
   right past him into the room with the strongbox, steal the
   necklace, and walk out again, without him accosting you.

   Using the 'A' key to get into combat mode is good for other
   situations, you can easily do many things unobserved that would
   be nearly impossible otherwise.  Hold down the A key if you run
   out of action points and want to stay in combat mode.  Hit A
   while a screen for a random encounter is loading to get the 
   first move.

   Talus and his students in the Brotherhood gym are oblivious to
   pickpocket.  You can repeatedly poke through their pockets until
   you are successful without any ill effects.  Net result: free
   stimpacks, assault rifles, and 5mm ammo.

   You can use drugs to qualify for a perk at any time.  You don't need
   to plan your high to coincide with a new level.  Just hit Esc or click
   cancel for selecting a perk and use your drugs when it's convenient
   then check the character screen again.

   If you increase your Intelligence at the Brotherhood, and have not
   looked at the character sheet since going up a level (or several), 
   you get skill points determined by your new intelligence.  It doesn't
   work that way with Endurance and hit points.

   Books won't increase a skill above 91%, but if you're recovering from
   drugs and have depressed stats, you can study up to 91% and then when
   your stats recover you'll be above that.

   In character creation, you can get a stat up to 11 by starting it
   at 10 and then picking Gifted.  This doesn't give you any stat
   increases above 10, so it's likely useless.


 --- Blitz Play ---------------------------------------------------------------

   If you finish off the Cathedral and Vats before day 150, you get
   a successful ending even if you didn't return the water chip.

   A route that allows you to finish very quickly is:
    Hub for electronic lock pick at the Thieves Circle
    Brotherhood -- pick the elevator -- for Vree's tape and power armor
    Boneyard for Turbo Plasma Rifle and xp
    Cathedral to kill Master
    Hub and Boneyard for Hardened Power Armor
    Military Base for endgame.

   One player finished on day 41 using a similar route.  He recommends
   Int 10 to max skill points, you will be a low level character the
   whole game, Agi 6 for AP's to run away from random encounters,
   the rest 4 or so to pump up Charisma.  Take Skilled and Good Natured
   and tag Sneak, Speech, Lockpick.

   Overland travel takes up time.  Doing a lot at a single location 
   doesn't.  You can rack up experience killing Deathclaws and get
   to a high enough level that you can face the Master without either
   power armor or Vree's tape -- i.e. you can skip the Brotherhood.

   Getting to the base via capture in Necropolis is tricky, you have
   no robe and getting one by killing Children in the control room
   sets off alarms.

   Here's one that allows you to hit more of the side quests
   but wastes no time:
    Return immediately to Vault 13 for the side quests
    Shady Sands Radscorpions, Vault 15, Shady Sands kidnapping
    Raiders
    Junktown
    Hub
    Necropolis, get Harry's laser rifle and start working on energy skill
    Glow
    Hub
    Brotherhood (optional) for power armor
    Adytum
    Cathedral
    Hub
    Brotherhood (if you didn't go above)
    Vault 13 to deliver the chip
    Military Base.


 --- Hackery ------------------------------------------------------------------

   The Skilled trait is supposed to give you 5 more skill points to spend
   when you go up a level.  It doesn't.  You can get this effect by 
   awarding yourself 2 or 3 ranks of Educated. (2.5 ranks would produce
   5 extra skill points but you must pick either 2 or 3).  To do this,
   hex-edit a saved game and add 2 or 3 to the value in location 8E0F.
   It's not always at that location; if not, locate the perks area,
   mark several of them, load the game and see what happened, pick the
   right one.

   The above is basically a workaround for a bug.  The following is pure
   cheat.  When creating a character, use SAVE CHARACTER and choose
   some name, for example PLAYER.  Hex edit the file PLAYER.GCD and alter
   the last byte.  It's the number of attribute points you have left to
   spend.  Set it to anything you please.  Now go through Create New
   Character again, load PLAYER, and assign the stolen points as you like.


 --- Credits ------------------------------------------------------------------
   
   I'm not happy with this mass attribution but things got very cluttered,
   and lengthy, otherwise.  If anybody's unhappy, let me know and I will
   rectify the matter.

                        ALang       alangt          ibm.net
                        B.S         vortex          california.com
         Christopher H. Baer        chbaer          cris.com
                        Balut       balut           jhu.edu
                   Bill Bohlen      Bill.Bohlen     worldnet.att.net
                    Tim Bolin       tbolin          nospam.com
                Chia K. Boon        ckboon          pacific.net.sg
                Timothy Cain        caintim         ix.netcom.com
                 Nathan Carter      ncarter         ritchie.acomp.usf.edu
               Chia-Hao Chang       cchang          vicious.cis.ohio-state.edu
                Kay-Yut Chen        kychen          hpl.hp.com
              Fallout's Chris       anarchy         netcom.com
                 John M Clancy      jmclancy        ix.netcom.com
                Charles Cox         ccox            gsvms2.cc.gasou.edu
                        cparn1138   cparn1138       aol.com
                Jeffrey Crawford    drizzit         ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
                   Andy Curlutu     acurlutu        neo.lrun.com
                 Carlos DaSilva     cdasilva        earthlink.net
                William Davis       wishda          mindspring.com
                  Chris Dinardo     cdinardo        tao.agoron.com
                  Jason Doyama      me              microsoft
                        doyon       doyon           erols.com
                   Lost Dragon      lostdrgn        cris.com
                  Plugh Dragon      no-spam         thank.you.com
                  Brent Edger       brente          ee.net
                   Josh Errington   llew            ix.netcom.com
                        evilsofa    flodin          eskimo.com 
                    Tim Faulkner    timfaulk        concentric.net
                   Boba Fett        boba_fett       newfire.com
                    Ian Firth       divsoft         dim.com
                    Rik Flor        rik.flor        abbott.com
              George P. Fono        fono            better.net
                     M. Gardner     mpgardner       ghg.net
                   Jeff Green       jhgreen         zd.com
                  Brian Griffin     bdg             tiac.net
                  Keith Grimes      kgrimes         aracnet.com
                  Brett Hall        swizin          rain.org
                   Erik Harris      esh7            cornell.edu
                  Scott Harvey      sharvey         enteract.com
                    Joe Hendrix     joeeeee         mail.utexas.edu
                     A. Heshmat     Ah269834        hvcc.edu
           Alex Van Der Hengst      vanderhengst    mindspring.com
              Khor Chin Hong        khor            kch.pl.my
                    Tim Hume        hume            deltanet.com
                        Ian         iadmontg        undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca
                    Joe II          jpgmer          worldnet.att.net
                  Chris Irby        chrisirby       topher.net
                Peter N Ivanov      tuidjy          mit.edu
                    Tim Iverson     iverson         lionheart.com
                        Jag         gibbin          swbell.net
                        Jones       cej             cbncp5.cb.att.com
                   Greg Kasavin     greg            mail.gamespot.com
                  James Keller      Genius          MIT.edu
                    Joe Kraska      jkraska         bbn.com
                   Cmdr Krud        au79            primenet.com
                        Lammy       ricki           xmission.com
                   Mike Lee         mikelee         hatman.com
              Steven K. Lee         slee            balink.com
                  Chris List        chris.list      sc.siemens.com
                  Bemis Lovecraft                   hooked.net
                    Bob Luthardt    luthardt        clark.net
                  Jerel Mackay      jerel           cs.wisc.edu
                 Viktor Magyar      vic             goliat.eik.bme.hu
                   Alex Mars        alexmars        aol.com
                Dave C. Martin      myros           diac.com
                        MCBad4Life  mcbad4life      aol.com 
                  Kevin Murphy      MurphKE1        aplmsg.jhuapl.edu
                   Cory Muzyka      corym           zadall.com
                   Carl Ng          yeechiew        pacific.net.sg
                  Scott Nickell     salvius         earthlink.net
                        Nils        OgoIII          aol.com
                        Pantera     daveo           xmission.com
                     C. Patchet     cpatchet        NMSU.Edu
                    Joe Pesci       taipan          ihug.co.nz
                   Toan Pham        tpham           netcom.com
                  Helge Philipp     helge.philipp   artis.uni-oldenburg.de
                    Dan Phillips    shuruga         halcyon.com
                        Piemax      obruden         ziplink.net
                  David Pipes       robear          home.com
                        Presto      presto          cdc.net
                        Psychodad   v4vlad          sirius.com
                Marc H. Rains       mrains          swbell.net
                        Raistlin    daveo           xmission.com
                    Kim Rivers      mdnite::rivers  evms.enet.dec.com 
                    Ken Robertson   krobert         erols.com
                   Matt Rollefson   rollie          next.com
                  Brain Rot         chepaul         sprintmail.com
              Trebor A. Rude        trebor          mnsinc.com
                    Sam Schlansky   sam             allgames.com
                   Paul Schmidt     kuato           netcom.com
            Tshiung Han See         thsee           pl.jaring.my
                   Dave Sherohman   esper           corlabs.com
                        Skisko      Skisko          mail.hsc.wvu.edu
               Clark S. Smith       clarkss         concentric.net
                 Thomas Stockheim   tommi           informatik.rwth-aachen.de
                        tcmac       tcmac           sprintmail.com
                  David Teach       d.teach         ix.netcom.com
                     A. Teilans     ateilans        bloomington.in.us
                        Thain       weclark         inls.com
                  Jason Thies       thies910        uidaho.edu
           Crisper Than Thou        crisper         armory.com
               Julian F Waldby      waldby          coewl.cen.uiuc.edu
                        walker      kilgard         mendel.berkely.edu
                Russell Webb        rwebb           panix.com
                    Tom Whipple     twhipple        unicom.net 
                   Alec Wills       awills          earthlink.net
             Michael Y. Wu          mwu             taurus.oac.uci.edu
          International 4-8818      Wchester        worldnet.att.net
                                    noone           not.here

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
		   Copyright (C) 1997  Chris Smith
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 