                                  [Image]

                   Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis

                                  [Image]

About Hal Barwood :

It can have 9000 Hal, but there is only one Barwood (ahahah!). Hal Barwood
is a ("former") USC Student, where he met George Lucas. He worked on the
opticals of THX 1138 movie release and then began his career in the movie
business. He is (among other things) the producer and writer of
DragonSlayer (1981) and Corvette Summer (1978), the director and writer of
Warning Sign (1985) and the writer of The Sugarland Express (1974). He even
play in Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977) !

He is credited in Full Throttle, The Dig and others Lucasarts Games and is
the project leader of Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis, the director
of Rebel Assault II movie footage and the project leader of Indiana Jones :
The DeskTop Adventure.

He is now working on top-secret LucasArts stuff.

The Walkthrough :

Indy 4 -- Fate of Atlantis Walkthrough for All 3 Modes

by Allen Li, Gerhard Woeginger (gwoeging@iaik.tu-graz.ac.at) and team.

Team Mode: by Gerhard J. Woeginger
Wits Mode: by Allen Li
Fists Mode: by Terence P. Spielmanand and Allen Li

(A#) -- Alternative Solution

PART 1 (New York, Iceland, Tikali, Azores, College)

NEW YORK

Take the newspaper.(A1) find your way through the crates on the backside of
the building (pushcrates) and use the fire escape.(A2) talk to doorman,
"smart", "easy to understand".(A3) Fight doorman. Give the paper to the
stagehand, push the right and left lever and press the button. Talk to
Sophia and leave together with her for Iceland.

ICELAND

Talk to Heimdall; he tells you about Tikali and the Azores.

TIKAL

Hit the jungle rodent several times with the whip, until it runs to the
snake; use the tree. Talk to Sternhart until he asks you the name of
Plato's lost dialogue. Tell him that you do not know the title. Then talk
to the parrot, ask him "Title?" and talk again to Sternhart. Inside the
pyramide, ask Sophia to keep Sternhart occupied. Go outside, take the lamp
and open it. Use the lamp to get the spiral design in the pyramide. Then
use the design with the animal head, pull it and open the grave. Sternhart
gets away with the disk. Take the bead and return to Iceland.

ICELAND

Use the bead in the eel's mouth; take the eel.

AZORES

Let Sophia first talk to Costa. Then trade him the eel for theknowledge of
the position of the lost dialogue.

COLLEGE

There are three possibilities to find the collection (changesfrom game to
game). (Case 1) Take the gum from the desk in the library, use it with the
coal chute in the furnace room. Take the wax cat figurine and melt it in
the furnace. (Case 2) Get the rag in the furnace room and the arrowhead in
the room with the totempole. Use the rag with the arrowhead to produce a
screwdriver and open the bookcase in the library. (Case 3) Use the jar from
the refrigerator in the office with the totempole. Pull the totempole under
the hole in the ceiling and climb up. Open the urn and take the key. Push
the crate in the totempole-room and open the chest behind it. Talk to
Sophia in the office and choose one of the three paths -- team, wits, and
fists.

PATH 1 -- TEAM MODE

PART 2 (Algier, Monte Carlo)

ALGIER

Go to the shopkeeper in the back alley and take the mask. Talk to the man
with the knives. Convince Sophia to volunteer for him and push her as she
hesitates. You will receive a knife this way.

MONTE CARLO

Talk to several people and ask them about Trottier. Sooner or later you
will meet him (a man in a brown suit). Talk to him in a very polite and
humble way till he is willing to take part in the seance. (A1:indy) During
the seance take the flashlight from the cabinet and the bedsheet. Open the
fuse box and use the circuit breaker. Wear the bedsheet, the mask and the
flashlight to produce a reasonable ghost. (A2:sophia) When indy talk to
Trottier outside, take notes on what he said (they varied from game to
game). After entering the room, transfer control to sophia. Demand proof.
Answer three questions as Trottier just said. Answer a random number.(may
need several save-and-restore here) This solution does not require the
mask. Afterwards take the sunstone.

ALGIER

Talk again to the shopkeeper and show him the sunstone. He will give you a
map and a couple of camels; your first visit to the desert fails. Next you
have to trade several things with the shopkeeper and with the grocer; the
final goal is to get the squab-on-a-stick for the mask. Give the squab to
the beggar and receive a balloon ticket. Go to the roof, enter the balloon
and cut the rope with the knife.

PART 3 (Desert)

BALLOON RIDE

A kind of arcade game, since the up and down movements are coupled with
movement in clockwise and counterclockwise directions. You will find out
about this. You must land several times and ask nomades for the way to the
X.

DIG SITE

Sophia disappears into the hole. Climb down the ladder into the dark room,
and get everything you can get: Sharp wood thing (ship rib), long tubular
thing (hose), blunt wood thing (peg), clay thing (clay jar). At the truck
you use the hose with the opened gas tank and the clay jar with the hose;
this fills the jar with gas. Go back to the dark room, open the metal cap
and pour the gas-filled jar into the gas filler pipe. Push the little metal
thing to turn on the generator. Then dig the crumbling wall with the ship
rib, put the peg into the mural and put the sunstone on the peg. Look at
the sunstone: the lost dialogue tells to align "darkness" with the "horns";
do this and press the peg to open a secret door. Sophia comes out and gives
you a distributor cap and a fish-on-a-string. Turn off the generator, open
it and take the spark plug. Put the distributor cap and the spark plug into
the truck's engine. Leave for Crete.

PART 4 (Crete)

RUINS

First find the surveyor's instrument and take it. Pick up allstones around
the tall horns; you will detect two statues (bull's head andtail). In one
of the entrances, there is a mural diagram with a bull'shead, horns and
tail. According to this, put the surveyor's instrument onthe head statue
and look through it to the left horn. Then put it on thetail statue and
look at the right horn. This gives you an X. Dig at the X with the ship rib
and find the moonstone. Go to the stone pedestal and usethe sun- and the
moonstone with it. Align the disks according to the lostdialogue (changes
from game to game), press the spindle and detect a secretdoor in the wall.

CAVES

Pick up two of the three stone heads. Go through the door andget the third
head with your whip. Find the room with the tall Minotaurstatue. Use the
whip with its head, and then stand to the left of the bighead. The elevator
takes you down to the dead Sternhart. Take theworldstone and the staff.
Examine the waterfall and use the chain hiddenbehind it. Then find the room
with the shelf and the closed door; open the door by putting the three
stone heads onto the shelf. Go through the door and do three things. First,
use the staff with the chock to free thecounterweight. Secondly, use the
staff in the statue's mouth to start theelevator. Thirdly, take the golden
box, open it, put the two beads into itand close it again. Return to Sophia
and enter the next room. Convince Sophia to let you boost her through the
hole in order to open the gate. In the next room use he fish-on-a-string.
It will point to Sophia's necklace. Talk to Sophiaand make her put the
necklace into the golden box. Walk through all roomsand use the
fish-on-a-string. Somewhere it will point to the wall; dig this wall with
the rib and open the door behind. Use all three disks with the spindle
according to the lost dialogue. The Germans will kidnap Sophia and steal
the disks. Dig the rocks with the rib and return to the surface.

PART 5 (Submarine)

Open the hatch, fight against the captain and enter the submarine. Usethe
intercom to order "All hands to the bow". Go to the lower deck, takethe mug
of porcelain and fill it with battery acid. Talk to Sophia from the left
neighboring room through the window in the wall and ask her to distract the
guard. Free Sophia and open the strong box with the help of the acid.
Inside the box you find the three disks and a tiny key. Get the plunger.
Unlock the emergency rudder control with the tiny key, break the lever in
the conning tower and repair it with the plunger. Steer the submarine into
the airlock (another fine(?) arcade game).

PART 6 (Atlantis)

ENTRANCE

Find the wooden thing (ladder) in the dark and use it at the stone rubble.
Sophia is kidnapped by the Germans again. Climb the ladder,open the stone
thing and take the rod. Put a bead into the rod and lightthe room. Use the
disks with the spindle according to the lost dialogue,but with north and
south reversed (as "entrance is yielded only to contraryminds"). The
statue's mouth will open, and you feed a bead into it. Thedoor opens, you
take the ladder and the three disks. Enter Atlantis.The exact position of
the interesting rooms in Atlantis changes from game to game. Explore all
shaded places (marked by a questionmark), open and enter all grates. You
must detect the following rooms and items.

ROOM WITH ROBOT

PARTS 1

Take the bronze gear attached to the wall.

ROOM WITH ROBOT

PARTS 2

Take the bronze spoked wheel lying in the ROOM WITH EEL-FIGURINE: Get the
eel-figurine from the cupboard.

SUBWAY

At the most southern point, in the outer cycle. Take the ribcage from the
skeleton.

HALLWAY

Fight against one of the German stooges (and defeat him). Youwill get a
bratwurst. Bait the rip cage with the bratwurst (in case youtook the
sandwich from the kitchen in the submarine, you may bait the cagewith the
sandwich).

CRAB ROOM

Use the baited rip cage in the pool to catch a crab.

STATUE ROOM 1

Contains a statue that looks like a cross between a bulland a fish. Take
the statue's head.

STATUE ROOM 2

Contains a large statue holding a cup. Use the ladder to cross the hole in
the floor. Take the stone cup. Don't forget to take the ladder before
leaving.

LAVA ROOM

Use the stone cup with the pedestal. Use the statue's headwith the plaque.
This gives you a mug full of lava.

MACHINE ROOM

Repair the machine by putting the bronze spoked wheel onto the peg. Fill
the mug with lava into the funnel. Take the produced beads and take the
bronze spoked wheel before leaving.

PRISON ROOM

In the room where Sophia is kept imprisoned there are twovents, one on the
left side and one in the middle.The interesting vent isthe left one. From
there you can put a bead into the sentry statue; it will start moving, kill
the German and destroy itself.

SENTRY ROOM

Contains three statues and a pool. To get rid of the water you put a bead
into the eel. Then put a bead into the smallest statue's mouth. The door
will open

PRISON ROOM

Take the statue part from the destroyed statue. In orderto free Sophia, you
have to enter the canal system.

PART 7 (The inner cycle)

CANAL

Feed the crab to the octopus. Enter the canal, go to the otherside and put
a bead into the crab mouth. The crab raft will start to float.Float to the
left side, open the gates with the sun-, moon- or worldstone.There are only
two interesting places in the canal system. One contains acupboard with a
crescent shaped gear. Take the gear, close the cupboard and look at it. You
see a diagram with several wheels and moving arms. The other interseting
place contains the large bronze statue and the chain. Use the ladder with
the statue and open the chest plate. Look at the chestplate; you have to
put the bronze gear, the bronze wheel, the statue partand the crescent gear
into the right places, as described by the diagram on the cupboard (the
wheel and the statue part belong onto the central peg). Make that the
statue moves the right arm. Then fasten the chain to thestatue arm and to
the bronze loop. Make the statue to move its right armback. The chain will
break the door and a hinge pin comes off. Take thehinge pin and return to
Sophia.

PRISON

Give the hinge pin to Sophia. Open the cage. Sophia uses thepin and gets
free. Open the cage a second time to get the pin.

CANAL

Finally, you enter the inner cycle of Atlantis through the broken door.
Sophia is getting crazy and leads you to a room with a lava pit. Look at
Sophia, feed a bead to her necklace and use the box with thenecklace. You
get rid of Nur-Ab-Sal in the lava pit. Pick up the scepter(near the
skeletons). In the hall and near the hulking machine you see twoAtlantean
graffittis: One shows the lever positions to start the hulkingmachine
(upward arrow), the other shows how to stop it. Use the hinge pinand the
sceptre as levers in two slots. Feed a bead to the mouth.

VOLCANIC AREA

Cross the area by trial and error. In the background,you see a picture of
three cocentric cycles: This picture encodes thepositions of noon sun
(sundisk), of full moon (moondisk) and of the volcano(worlddisk). In the
central room with the frog statue and the spindle,align the three disks
according to this picture. Now the Germans appear again. The first German
is no problem, he will kill himself. Tell the second German that you are
going to kill him as soon as you are a god. Thus you get rid of him, too,
and finish the game.

PATH 2 -- WITS MODE PART 2 (Algier, Monte Carlo)

MONTE CARLO

Talk to Trottier and get his business card.

ALGIER

Go to the servant in the back alley and give him the business card. Talk to
the man with red fez: nice fez, quite a hat, stick in the eye, festive,
well, thanks. You got a fez. Give it to the servant. When he ask why,
answer that the fez can make him tall. Talk to him to see Omar. Follow him
to the Omar's house(may need to repeat the job several times). Enter
closet. Close closet door to trap Omar. Pick up bamboo. Use bamboo stick on
cloth to get map. Pick up statues. Ride camel to dig site. If got stoped by
officers, use the statues to bribe them.

PART 3 (Desert)

DIG SITE

Use clay jar and hose to get gas. Switch generator on. Use ship rib on
crumped wall. Push painting of round object. Get statue. Use orichalcum in
statue. Use statue as battery. Get note inside truck. Start truck.

MONTE CARLO

Talk to trottier and tell him he is on trouble. Nazis will take him. Try to
intercept the car. Find the sign. Open drain and get sunstone.

PART 4 (Island Thera)

One of three places (cleft, gap, and notch) in mountain will lead to an
entrance. Out side the entrance, close the crate and get invoice. Inside
you will find an entrenching tool. Close the door near the tool. Use
sunstone to get carved sign. Open tool to dig a way out the cave. Return to
port, show invoice to get the gas bag for balloon. Use sign to exchange the
large basket. Use them with fish net and hose to built a balloon. Go to
mountains, use vent to inflate the balloon. Learn how to manuver the
balloon and land it on the sub.

PART 5 (Submarine)

Use bread and cold cuts to make a sandwich. Give sandwich to guard. Open
locker to get moonstone and torpedo instructions. Pick up rag and
clothesline. Go to torpedo room at the aft section. Use rag with wires. Use
instructions with control panel. Push lever to cause fire. Go to the
torpedo room at the front section. Use instructions with control panel. Use
clothesline with lever. Enter torpedo tube. Pull line.

CRETE

Use sunstone and moonstone to open the door. Search rooms and find a wool
scarf and a comb. Use them as a orichalcum detector. Find worldstone and
some orichalcum beads. See hints from team mode if needed. Find microtaur.
Use statue in machine. Feed a bead to the statue. You will get to the map
room. Use three stones to open the door. Use the home-made detector to find
another beads and a secret door at the next two rooms. Entering the secret
door, you will find a bead and a subway car. Feed the car with the bead.
O.K. Now you are at Atlantis. All three modes converges here.

PATH 3 -- FISTS MODE PART 2 (Algier, Monte Carlo)

MONTE CARLO

Talk to Trottier and get his business card.

ALGIER

Go to the servant in the back alley and give him the business card. Talk to
him to see Omar. Follow him to the Omar's house. Beat the Nazi. Pick up
bamboo. Use bamboo stick on cloth to get map. Pick up statues. Ride camel
to dig site. If got stoped by officers, use the statues to bribe them.

PART 3 (Desert)

DIG SITE

Switch generator on. Use ship rib on crumped wall. Look at the painting on
the left wall. Push the round object on the painting. Get sunstone. Use it
with wood peg on wall. Turn the stone disk and press the peg will reveal a
secret door. Enter the door to get outside. Talk the the Nazi. Use whip to
get rid the machine gun. Beat him with you fists. Use balloon and head
north to Crete.

PART 4 (Crete)

RUINS

See team mode.

CAVES

See team mode. After finding prof Sternhart's body, get his staff. Then
climb up the chain in the waterfall to get back up to the rest of the
labyrinth. A door is blocked with a big slab. Push it SEVERAL times. After
pushing the stone slab covering the door proceed to beat up all the gards,
with 2 exceptions. The first one, Hans, is too strong to beat, so hide
behind a stone slab and when he comes by, push it over onto him. Also,
Arnold is too strong to beat. Use the ship's rib to pry the boulder in the
next room over so that it will roll onto him. When that doesn't work, go
find a stalactite (on ceiling in another room) and pry the boulder from
outside the doorway it's wedged in, that will take care of Arnold. Then
look in the pit to find Sophia, search Arnold's body, and you have
everything you need to get to Atlantis. The stories converges here.

                         < Back to the Main Page >
