
        Minesweeper Guide
 
        Daniel Silevitch

The most important part of doing well in expert level 
Minesweeper is continuity. The patterns and suggestions 
listed here will be useful, but only if they are used 
frequently enough to become second nature. A pattern file is 
of no use for high scores if patterns must be looked up 
before being used. The only way to achieve such continuity 
is by constant practice. I've played Minesweeper for at 
least 9 months, on a virtually daily basis, and I've watched 
my score on Expert improve from 560 seconds to my current 
best of 115 seconds.

General strategy hints:

 There are two types of information available in 
Minesweeper; where there are mines, and where there are not 
mines. If, from the arrangement of numbers, it is clear 
where a mine must be, that is 1% of the way towards 
finishing the game. If, on the other hand, there are 2 
possibilities for the location of a mine, but there are 3 
unopened squares, open the third: it might give you enough 
information to locate the mine precisely.

  Example    Key: |,+,-: Edge of board
                  X,x  : Blank square (capital for emphasis) 
  |....x          F    : Flag (located number) 
  |F.F.x          #    : A specific number
  |23x.x          .    : A non-specific number
  |XXxxx
  +-----

It is clear that the two capital Xs represent the two 
possible locations for the single mine needed to "fufill" 
the 2 that borders the edge. Either of these locations would 
also create 3 mines adjacent to the 3. This means that the 
third mine next to the 3 is in one of two locations. 
Therefore, it is safe to uncover the other blank squares 
that the 3 abuts. It is possible that this will give some 
extra information which can be used to solve the original 
problem.

If analysis fails due to completely insufficient 
information, give up on the specific area and work on 
another section instead of wasting time on something that 
can't be solved. It is possible that work in a nearby 
section will uncover additional information that will make 
it possible to solve a once unsolvable region. If this does 
not happen, and there is no way of distinguishing between 
locations, guess, and guess quickly so as not to waste time. 
The object of this guide is to allow you to reduce guessing 
to a minimum, preferably 0.

At the endgame, when there is usually a strip of unknown 
composition running along one side of the board, a very 
primitive analysis can be done regarding the number of mines 
left. If there are 4 mines left in 40 blocks, there is a 
large amount of white space, and certain border patterns 
become more likely. With heavy densities, patterns that use 
more mines become more probable. Note that this deals with 
probabilities, not certainties, and is not recomended except 
as a last resort to blind guessing. This means that if there 
is an arrangement of mines on the last area that uses 5 
mines and one that uses 8, checking the number of remaining 
mines will give a higher probability of being correct than 
random guessing.

Patterns

These are all arrangements of mines that have very specific 
signatures in the numeric display. Some of the patterns I 
have proven to be true, and others I have not attempted to 
prove, but since they have consistently worked, they are 
included here and their verity is assumed.

I. Basic Line patterns   (see above for key)

  ......             ......           ......
  ..121.             .1221.           .232..
  xXXXXX             XXXXXX           XXXXXx
  xxxxxx             xxxxxx           xxxxxx
     |                  |                |
     V                  V                V
  ......             ......           ......
  ..121.             .1221.           .232..
  x.F.F.             ..FF..           .FFF.x
  xxxxxx             xxxxxx           xxxxxx

II. Variations on Line patterns

  ...F..    ...F...    ....F.   ..F...   ...F...
  .132..    .1332..    .233..   .232..   ..343..
  XXXXXx    XXXXXXx    XXXXXx   XXXXXx   xXXXXXx
  xxxxxx    xxxxxxx    xxxxxx   xxxxxx   xxxxxxx
    |          |         |         |         |
    V          V         V         V         V

  ...F..    ...F...   ....F.   ..F...    ...F...
  .132..    .1332..   .233..   .232..    ..343..
  .F.F.x    ..FF..x   .FFF.x   .F.F.x    ..FFF.x
  xxxxxx    xxxxxxx   xxxxxx   xxxxxx    xxxxxxx

III. Corner patterns

 xX...      xX...    xX...
 xX2..      xX2..    xX1..
 xX52.      xX42.    xX42.
 xXXXX      xXXXX    xXXXX
 xxxxx      xxxxx    xxxxx
   |          |        |
   V          V        V

 x....      x....    x....
 xF2..      xF2..    x.1..
 xF52.      xF42.    xF42.
 xFFF.      x.FF.    xFFF.
 xxxxx      xxxxx    xxxxx

These are the basic patterns of mines that are formed by the 
random number generator. There are other constantly 
recurring patterns, but they are more complex, and are rare 
enough that it is faster to approach them using standard 
elimination strategy than to memorize the solution to the 
specific patterns.


Daniel Silevitch                         dmsilev@athena.mit.edu
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
