               he Secret of Monkey Island - LeChuck's Revenge

    General advice

    The game sometimes requires you to talk to somebody and mention
    certain thing before a certain option is advailble.

    Part I - The Largo Embargo

    Scabb Island

    Acessible locations - woodtick, beach, swamp, cemetery, pennisula.

    Woodtick

    Acessible Locations - toll bridge, woodsmith, bar, kitchen, map
    maker, inn, laundry.

    You started with lots of money in your inventory, though you are not
    going to keep them for long. Largo will come and take all your money.

    Walk to the right. You'll find a map of the island. Move the cursor
    around to check what places you can access.

    Pennisula

    Walk to boathouse. Talk to Captain Dread. He'll tell you to get rid
    of Largo before you can get out of this island.

    Swamp

    Walk to coffin. Use coffin. Row to the right until you have reach
    the shack.

    Walk to the right and talk to the voodoo lady, Mojo. Ask her about
    the voodoo doll. You'll get a voodoo shopping list from her.

    The 4 items are from the dead, head, thread and body.

    1. Item from the dead - Largo's ancestor.

    Woodtick

    At the toll bridge, look at the sign. Pick up the sign, you'll get
    the shovel on it.

    Cemetery

    Walk to graves. Look at tombstones. Locate Largo's ancestor grave.
    Use the shovel to dig the appropriate grave. Get a bone.

    2. Item from the body - Largo's body fluid.

    Woodtick

    Go to Wally's place (the cartographer). Walk to the pile of papers.
    Pick up a piece of paper.

    Walk to the hatch (bar). Talk to bartender. When you mentioned Largo,
    Largo will appears and spit something on the wall. Wait for him to
    leave. Use the piece of paper to get the spit on the wall.

    3. Item from the head - Largo's hair

    Woodtick

    Walk to window (just beside the hatch). This will let you enter the
    kitchen. Walk to table, pick up knife.

    Walk to the inn. Talk to innkeeper. Use knife on the rope to release
    the alligator. The innkeeper will run after the alligator so you
    enter the Largo's room.

    Largo's room. Walk to the plastic head. Pick up toupee.

    4. Item from the thread - Largo's clothing

    Woodtick

    Walk to laundry shop. Walk to the left, pick up the bucket.

    Swamp

    Look at swamp. Use bucket on swamp to get a bucket of mud.

    Woodtick

    Largo's room. Close the door first. Put the bucket of mud on top of
    the door. Wait for Largo to come in. This will dirty Largo's clothing.

    Follow him to the laundry. Listen to the conversation.

    Go back to Largo's room. Close the door. Get the laundry ticket
    behind the door.

    Go to the laundry. Give the ticket to the old man to get Largo's
    clothing.

    Swamp

    Talk to Mojo. Give her the four items. She'll give you a voodoo doll
    and some pins.

    Woodtick

    Largo's room. Use pins on voodoo doll. This will get Largo off the
    island.

    Pennisula

    Talk to Captain Dread. You'll need to find something for him first.

    Woodtick

    Walk to Wally's place. Talk to him. Make sure he has nothing more
    to tell you. Wait for him to put down his monocle. Pick up monocle.

    Pennisula

    Give the monocle to Captain Dread. He'll will need you to get 20
    pieces of eight first.

    Woodtick

    Walk to laundry. Talk to pirates. Agree to buy wood polish.

    Walk to woodsmith's place. Talk to him and buy the wood polish.

    Walk to laundry. Use wood polish on peg leg. You'll get a piece
    of eight each time you do that. But that don't give you sufficient
    money to pay the Captain.

    So, you need to find a job and earn some money.

    Beach

    Pick up stick.

    Swamp

    Mojo's place. Look around. Pick up string.

    Woodtick

    Walk to inn. Look at bowl. Pick up cheese squiggles.

    Walk to laundry. Open box. Use stick on box. Use cheese squiggles
    on box. Use string on stick. Wait for the rat to eat the cheese.
    Pull the string to catch the rat. Open box. Get rat.

    Go to the kitchen (enter it from the window). Put rat in the pot.

    Walk to bar. Talk to bartender. Ask him about the stew. He'll check
    the stew and find the rat in the soup. As a result, the cook is
    fired and you got a new job. The bartender will give you 420 pieces
    of eight.

    Pennisula

    Talk to the Captain.

    Part II - Four Map Pieces

    There are three islands you can access: Scabb, Booty and Phatt.

    Outside the boat. Pick up parrot chow. Read the book about Big
    Whoops to find out who are having the map pieces.

    1. Map piece from Rapp Scallion the cook.

    Booty Isle

    Enter antique shop. Buy the well polished saw (near the door).

    Scabb Isle

    Woodtick

    Walk to laundry. Use the well polished saw on peg leg.

    Walk to woodsmith's place. He'll be out for emergency service. Pick
    up hammer and nails.

    Booty Isle

    Enter Stan's coffin shop. Talk to him. Ask him to show you the coffin.
    When he is in, close the coffin. He'll give you a hankie. Close the
    coffin again. Use the hammer with the nails to trap Stan inside the
    coffin. Get the crypt key.

    Scabb Isle

    Cemetery

    Use the crypt key to open the crypt. Enter the crypt. You'll find
    many coffins with quotes on them. You'll need to find out which
    one is Rapp's coffin before you can open them.

    Phatt's Isle

    Once you reach the isle, you'll be captured. In the jail. Open
    mattress. Pick up stick. Use stick on bone. Give the bone to the
    dog. Get key. Use key to open jail door. Get the envelopes. One
    of them contains your personnal item and the other contain a
    banana and an organ.

    Walk to the library. Borrow a few book. Get a temporary library
    card from the librarian. Borrow the book on voodoo "receipts: the
    joy of hex".

    Mansion

    Open gate. Walk to door. Enter door. Talk to guard. FInd some reason
    to get him away. Go upstairs. Use book (any one will do) to swap the
    book from the governer. Look at the book. It's contain all the
    famous quotes of many pirates.

    Scabb Isle

    Cemetery

    Look at the coffins. Open the coffin of Rapp Scallion. Look inside.
    Pick up some ash.

    Swamp

    Go to Mojo's place. Look at the jar. One of them is the ash 2 life
    potion. Talk to Mojo. Give her the ash of Rapp Scallion and get the
    ash-2-life potion from her. Use the book of voodoo receipts when
    needed.

    Cemetery

    Use the potion on Rapp's ash. Talk to Rapp. Agree to check up his
    hut and get a key from him.

    Beach

    Use the key to open door to the weenie hut. Use the knob to turn
    off the gas.

    Cemetery

    Talk to Rapp again. He'll give you a map piece.

    2. Map piece from Young Lindy, the cabin boy.

    Booty Isle

    Walk to antique shop. The map piece is on sale there for 6 million
    pieces of eight. You'll need to find the head piece from the Mad
    Monkey to exchange for it. Buy the horn.

    Talk to Captain Kate (the women with the big hat). Get a leaflet
    from her.

    Go to spitting contest. Try spitting. Walk to the flags and look
    at them. Try to pick them up. Use horn. All the people there will
    be distract for a while. Pick up the flags and shift their position.
    Try spitting again. You will do a bit better, but not good enough.

    Scabb Isle

    Go to the bar. Show the library card to the innkeeper and this
    allow you to buy drinks from him. Buy the blue drink and yellow
    drink. You'll be given a crazy straw. Use the blue drink on the
    yellow drink to get the green drink.

    Booty Isle

    Go to the spit master. Use the crazy straw with the green drink.
    This make your spit thicker. Try the contest again. Not bad, you
    got second place. Try spitting again, this time spit only when
    you find the women scarf is flying (this indicates that it's
    windy). This let you win the contest. You get a plague.

    Go to antique shop. Sell the plague to the dealer for 6000 pieces
    of eight.

    Talk to Captain Kate. Charter the ship but don't go to sea yet.

    Phatt Isle

    Borrow the book "Disaster : Great shipwrecks of the century". Read
    the book and note down the location of the sunken monkey.

    Booty Isle

    Talk to Captain Kate again. Look for sunken treasure.

    Go to the location indicated in the book. Dive for treasure. When
    you have found the ship, pick up the head piece. Use the anchor
    to go up.

    Go to antique shop. Give the head piece to the dealer, get the
    map piece.

    3. Map piece from Captain Marley.

    Phatt Isle

    Go to alley. Talk to man. Play the game. You'll always lose in the
    game. Notice the little guy always win. So, something fishy is
    happening.

    Follow the little guy to the another alley. Observe what he do.
    When he had left. Knock on the slot on the door. Ask about the
    next winning number. You'll be shown two signs. Always answer
    with the number of fingers you are shown previously, i.e.

    if he show you 4 then 5 answer 4
    if he show you 5 then 2 answer 5
    if he show you 1 then 2 answer 1
    etc.

    Remember the number and go an play the game again. You just need
    to win the invitation card. There is no need for the rest of the
    prizes.

    Booty Isle

    Go to custume shop. Give invitation to man. Get your custum.

    Mansion

    The guard will stop you and demand an invitation card and a custume.
    Wear the custume and go to the governer's mansion.

    Go to the side of the mansion. Open door and enter the kitchen. Try
    to get the fish. You'll be chase outside. This time try to pick up
    the trashcan. This irritates the chef and he will chase after you.
    Run round the mansion and enter the kitchen again. Pick up fish.

    Enter mansion. Pick up map piece. Exit the mansion. Try to get away.
    The dog and the gardener will stop you and bring you the Elaine.

    Talk to her as sweetly as possible. The distance between you two
    should get as near as possible. After she have thrown the map piece
    outside the window. Pick up the oars. Exit mansion and try to pick up
    the map. The wind will blow it away to the cliff. Pick up the dog.

    Cliff

    Walk to the side. Look at the map piece. You'll need something to
    get the map piece.

    Phatt Isle

    Walk to pier. Talk to fisherman. Bet with him. Give him the fish
    to get the fishing pole.

    Booty Isle

    Cliff

    Walk to the side of the cliff. Use the fishing pole on the map.
    A bird will take the map away.

    Big Tree

    Walk to the big tree. There is a plank in one of the hole. Pick
    up the plank. Use the oar in the first hole. Walk to the tree
    and then stand on oars. The oar will break and you'll have a
    dream. The necessary stuff will be written in the piece of paper
    in your inventory.

    Scabb Isle

    Woodtick

    Go to woodsmith's place. Give the oars to smithy. He'll fix it
    for you.

    Booty Isle

    Big Tree

    Use oar in first hole. Stand on oar. Use the plank in second
    hole. Stand on plank. Pick up oar and put in in third hole.
    Stand on oar, pick up plank and put it in fourth hole... etc
    until you reach the top of the tree. Enter door. Look at the
    pile of maps. Use the dog to get map piece.

    4. Map piece from Mister Roger, the first mate

    Booty Isle

    Big Tree

    Pick up telescope.

    Wharf

    Go to antique shop. Buy the sign beside parrot. Notice the hook
    behind the sign. Use the parrot chow with the hook. The parrot
    will turn to look at it. Buy the mirror.

    Scabb Isle

    Go to the bar. Use banana on metronome. Pick up monkey.

    Phatt Isle

    Use leaflet (from Captain Kate) on poster. Exit the island.
    Captain Kate will be captured. Enter the jail. Use the key
    to free her. Pick up the envelope with her belonging. There
    is a bottle of half grog inside.

    Waterfall

    Walk to the path above the waterfall. Use the monkey on the pump.
    The water will stop flowing.

    Enter the cave. This leads you to the cottage.

    Cottage

    Talk to man. Try the challenge and see what happened. You'll
    definitely lose if you don't do something. Take the challenge
    again. Pick up mug. Use mug on tree to empty it first. Use mug
    with bottle of half grog. This allow you to win the contest.
    Walk to the trapdoor. Push the brick. You'll fall straight
    through the tunnel. Ok, let's try that again. Open the window
    first. Use the mirror on the mirror frame. Go outside the
    cottage and use the telescope on the groteque statue. The sun
    ray will burn a hole in the brick. Push the brick again. Look
    at the skeleton. Pick up the map piece.

    Phatt Isle

    Go to the library. Open lighthouse model. Pick up lens.

    Booty Isle

    Go to Wally's place. Give him the lens. Give him the map pieces.
    He'll ask you to run an errand for him.

    Swamp

    Talk to Mojo. Get the juju bag. Look inside it. There's a love
    bomb and a box of matches.

    Woodtick

    Go to Wally's place. He's captured by LeChuck.

    Swamp

    Notice that there is a box laying near the swamp. Look at it.
    Open it and use it.

    Part III - LeChuck's Fortress

    Walk to the right. You'll find a lots of signs there. Don't enter
    it yet. Walk to the right tunnel. Look at jail. Talk to Wally.

    Walk back to the signs. Enter the back tunnels. Look at the piece
    of paper you have. Push bones according to what is written on the
    piece of paper. You'll need to do it 4 times, each time using one
    of the verses.

    You should find a huge door. It may look complicated. But you
    simply need to open the door. And this let you a doggie door.
    Pick up the jail key. It's a trap and you'll be hanging in the
    air in no time.

    You can't move now. but you can still use your mouth. Use crazy
    straw on green drink. You can spit on many places but you just need
    to concentrate on two places: the pan (just below Wally) and the
    shield (to your right). Notice that they changes their angle
    slightly every time you spit on them. Spit on them to adjust their
    angle. The correct angle will let you spit on the shield and it
    then bounces off to the pan which in turn send it to the candle.
    This turns off the light and you manage to escape.

    In darkness, use the box of matches to light up the place. Oops,
    seem that you have done it at the wrong place.

    Part IV - Dinky Island

    Talk the Herman. You must talk for a long time before you hit the
    right answer. There are many thing on the beach. Pick up crowbar.
    Pick up martini glass. Use glass with ocean. Use glass of sea water
    with sill to get distill water. Pick up bottle in the ocean. Use
    the bottle on the rock to break it. Open barrel to get cracker.
    Give cracker to parrot. Note what it says.

    Enter jungle. Walk to the left all the way to the big tree. Use
    the broken bottle on the bag. Get the cracker mix. Use the distill
    water on cracker mix to get two crackers.

    Walk to the pond (Walk right three times). Pick up rope. Use
    crowbar on the box. Get dynamites. Follow the direction given
    by parrot. You should find the parrot there. Give another
    cracker to it. Follow the direction given by parrot. The parrot
    should be there. Give it the last piece of cracker. You should
    find the big X.

    Use shovel on big X. Use matches with dynamites. Use dynamites
    with hole to blow it up.

    Use crowbar with rope. Use crowbar 'n' rope with metal rod.
    Watch what happens.

    In darkness, move the cursor around until you find the light
    switch. Turn in on. Oops, Lechuck is here. He will zapped you
    to a random room. So, try to get familiar with the different
    places and do thing fast.

    In the first aid room. Open trashcan to get 2 surgical gloves.
    Open drawer to get hyppdermic springe. Pick up skull.

    In the room with many box. Open all the box you can opened.
    Pick up root beer, voodoo doll, balloon.

    Do this in any room you find LeChuck. Give hankie to LeChuck,
    he'll blow his nose and give it back to you.

    In the room with the broken grog machine. Use the helium
    tank with the 2 surgical gloves and balloon. This make you
    lighter. Use the coin return. A coin will drop out. Wait
    for LeChuck to enter the room. He'll bend down to pick up
    the coin. Pick up his underwear.

    At the elevator, enter it. The 3 balloons you have with you,
    will let you use it to go up. Wait for LeChuck to come in,
    use the lever to go up. This shut the door and you'll get
    LeChuck's beard.

    Use the juju bag with the voodoo doll, beard, underwear,
    used hankie and skull. Mix them to get the voodoo doll of
    LeChuck.

    Now, it's revenge time. Walk around to look for LeChuck. When
    he enter the room, use the springe on the voodoo doll. He'll
    run away from you. Walk around to look for him.

    From now on, you can sit back and go through the end game.

    Well done, you have completed the game.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Image]  [Image]
