                                  [Image]

                                  The Dig

                                  [Image]

About Sean Clark :

Sean Clark succeded to Brian Moriarty for leading The Dig project.He worked
on some recent LucasArts games, specially Sam & Max Hit The Road as a
programer and game designer.

The Walkthrough :

by Morgana

NOTE: This file contains a complete solution to LucasArts' graphic
adventure, THE DIG, and may spoil your enjoyment of the game. Read at your
own risk.

METHODOLOGY

This is the story of how I got through THE DIG. I've described, as nearly
as I can recreate it, the game that I, personally, played. I've also
included another possible alternative toward the endgame that I learned of
after I finished my game, from messages posted here in the GAMERS forum,
and then replayed to check it out and to discuss it with fellow players. My
goal is not only to help you get through the game, but to give you a sense
of how I thought about the puzzles, what I got out of the game's story, and
why certain things I tried worked (and others didn't). I've attempted to
highlight things that you learn as you play that should serve as clues to
what might otherwise seem obscure puzzles, and have noted the places where
I needed a hint myself and/or felt that a puzzle could have been more
"fair." Instead of just telling you a quick and dirty solution, such as
"take x and use it on y" without an explanation of why, I've tried to give
you a sense of how I came to that point through my own game experience --
and how (I thought) some of the things that weren't necessary to finish the
game added to its atmosphere and exposed aspects of its richness. My hope
is that if you're new to graphic adventures and having some trouble, this
walkthru will not only help you through THE DIG, but will give you some
ideas about what to try with your next game to make it more fun and less
frustrating. If you've been playing adventures since Shep was a pup and
have pretty much breezed through THE DIG so far, I hope that this will help
you with wherever you happen to be stuck -- but will also be at least
somewhat entertaining to read through after you finish, as you'll get a
taste of where I was led astray. Maybe you can even relate to some of my
wayward follies because you waywardly followed them yourself. Heh.

INTRODUCTION

You learn through the introductory movie that an asteroid called Attila,
first sighted at an observatory in Borneo, is on a three-week collision
course with Earth. Attila is large enough to cause catastrophic damage if
it hits; indeed, it could wipe out all life on the planet. The Borneo
observatory's computer predicts that the likelihood of collision is 1 in 1,
but NASA says it's 99% (how typical). The space shuttle, although not
designed for such a mission, has been commissioned to take Commander Boston
Low (your player character) and his crew, Ludger Brink (noted geologist and
archaeologist), Maggie Robbins, (renowned journalist and linguistic
expert), Ken Borden (ace shuttle pilot), and Cora Miles (Congressional
candidate and payload specialist (huh? am I missing a connection here?)) to
Attila prior to impact. The plan is for the landing party (Boston, Brink
and Maggie) to place nuclear explosive devices that will blast Attila into
a different course, thereby saving Earth without destroying the asteroid.
If successful, preserving the asteroid will not only prevent large portions
of it from entering Earth's atmosphere and causing damage, but -- as you
soon find out -- will also allow Boston & Co. to do some exploring on
Attila once Earth is out of danger. As Brink lets you know later, this is
the first time any Earthlings will have had such an amazing chance to get
up close and personal with an asteroid. As you enter your mission, you're
under pressure. You have an extremely important job to do. The people of
Earth are counting on you. You have to do it right. My adrenaline was
pumping. Is yours ?

AT THE SHUTTLE

When the introduction is over, Boston, Maggie and Brink have exited the
space shuttle and are poised just outside it in space exploration garb. The
first thing I did was look in my inventory, mostly to get an idea of how
the interface worked. You start out with an EXAMINE (a magnifying glass
that allows you to get a closer look at other inventory items and on-screen
hotspots), a PENULTIMATE (a communications device with a built in video
game), an ARMING KEY, and a FLASHLIGHT. To test out the interface, further,
I EXAMINED each of the other inventory items. I didn't learn much of
anything new except that the ARMING KEY was for the "explosives" --
presumably those I'd need to place on Attila.

NOTE: When I use EXAMINE in this walkthru, I am referring to using the
magnifying glass from your inventory. When I use any other verb (such as
LOOK, USE, PUSH, etc.) all you need to do is click on the item.

Next I scanned for hotspots on the screen and found the following: TOOL
CHEST, ASTEROID, ROBBINS and BRINK. Since I figured I'd need some tools to
help me with Attila, I decided to focus on the TOOL CHEST first. I tried to
OPEN it, and Boston told me that it was called "the pig," and that payload
specialist Miles needed to use the remote arm to release it. Since she was
still in the shuttle and I saw no need for a face-to-face meeting with her
given that I was so technologically well-equipped, I decided to give her a
CALL on the PENULTIMATE. I called it up out of inventory and selected the
COMM option (the only one I used throughout the game although LUNAR LANDER
fans may choose to use the other as well from time to time), then MILES.
(Now that you know how the PENULTIMATE works, I'm not going to repeat these
steps every time to save you some download time. Hahahaha.) Since I was
determined to get that pig, I ASKED MILES about the FLYING PIG out of the
"talk" options, and she deployed it for me. I then LOOKED at the FLYING PIG
again, and Boston took it down to the surface of the ASTEROID.

PLACING THE EXPLOSIVES

Once at the surface, I OPENED the FLYING PIG. I REACHED inside the FLYING
PIG and found: a ZERO-G DIGGER, EXPLOSIVE UNIT ALPHA, EXPLOSIVE UNIT BETA,
and a modest, but serviceable-looking SHOVEL. I TOOK all of them and placed
them in inventory (by clicking each one on the "I" icon at the bottom left
of the screen), then EXITED that screen. (Now that you know how to place
items in inventory, I'm not going to remind you how to do it every time to
save you some download time. Hahahahaha again.) Now I had the explosives as
well as the arming key, but I didn't yet know where I needed to put them,
and I knew I had to be accurate about it since Brink had basically had a
cow about accuracy during the intro. So I decided to have a chat with him
in the hopes that he'd give me an idea of what to do. I TALKED to BRINK,
going through all the conversation options beginning with the QUESTION
MARK. I soon learned that as with other games I'd played, he'd keep talking
about each option until he had nothing new to say (at which point, in this
game, the option greys out). I talked him to exhaustion on each subject,
but he didn't give me any information on the placement of the explosives.
So I turned to ROBBINS and went through the same exercise. Not that I
expected her to know where to put them since it wasn't her field of
expertise, but it seemed the most efficient course in my quest for some
degree of thoroughness. I wasn't disappointed, for indeed she knew nothing
about how to place the explosives -- she just wanted to get into a zinger
war with me. But she wasn't nearly as fun to tease as _some_ people I could
name. My next thought was that one of the crew remaining on the shuttle
must have the information I needed, so I CALLED up BORDEN on the
PENULTIMATE. I also TALKED him to exhaustion starting with the QUESTION
MARK and working my way through all of the conversation options. He had
something puzzling to say about Attila not giving as much gravity as
expected and perhaps being nothing but a bubble, which set me to wondering
although I wasn't sure of the comments' significance. When I TALKED to him
about the NUCLEAR EXPLOSIVE, I got the first part of my answer: I was to
plant alpha charge in quadrant 2 on a flat surface. I made a note of this
and then decided to complete the circle and TALK MILES to death on the
PENULTIMATE. This turned out to be a challenge since she didn't want to
stop zinging me about my comment that she had my vote. She didn't have any
additional important information for me, though. Having exhausted all of
these options, I moved on to plant the first charge. I headed out to SPACE
and over to QUADRANT 2. Here, I found a TARGET SURFACE, but I was unable to
plant EXPLOSIVE UNIT ALPHA there because the ground was too rough.
Obviously, I needed to smooth it somehow first and it looked like it just
needed a pat or two with the back side of my SHOVEL. I picked up the trusty
SHOVEL to give it a try, but Boston told me I couldn't use it because of
low gravity and that we had the exact tool for the job. Ok, ok. It's the
ZERO-G DIGGER. Thanks for making me feel so competent, boss. I USED the
ZERO-G DIGGER with the TARGET SITE, which did the trick, and left nothing
but DIRT. I USED EXPLOSIVE UNIT ALPHA with the DIRT, after EXAMINING it
just for good measure. I still had another charge to place, so I CALLED up
BORDEN on the PENULTIMATE again since he'd been my answer man for the first
charge. He didn't have anything new to say about any conversation options
except NUCLEAR EXPLOSIVE -- he told me to plant beta charge in quadrant 3,
again on a level surface. After making sure I had nothing else to explore
in QUADRANT 2, I went back out to SPACE and then to QUADRANT 3. Here I
discovered a BOULDER which certainly didn't look like a level surface, so
it was no surprise that the charge wouldn't stick. A-hah! I thought. I'll
be smart this time and use my specially designed tool, the ZERO-G DIGGER.
But it didn't work! At the risk of being told what a dolt I was, I tried
USING the SHOVEL with the BOULDER -- it worked! And after patting herself
on the back for including a shovel in the tool chest, Miles gave me some
words to live by during the cut-scene: "if you can pick it up, take it with
you, 'cause you never know when you might need it." I USED EXPLOSIVE UNIT
BETA with the SURFACE (which was revealed once the BOULDER was gone) and
planted the second charge.

BLASTING ATTILA

At this point, I knew I'd need to arm the charges I'd just placed (why else
would I have an ARMING KEY?) but I thought it wise to confirm with BORDEN,
so I CALLED him again on the PENULTIMATE and again went through all the
conversation options. Again, he had nothing new to say except when I chose
NUCLEAR EXPLOSIVE, and he gave me the go-ahead to arm them. I had a few
thoughts going through my head now. Good thing there was more than one or
it might have died of loneliness. My first thought was that I'd learned in
exploring the hotspots on the space map screen that there was still a
QUADRANT 4 I hadn't been to yet, and although it wasn't relevant for the
charges, it might reveal something of interest. The second was whether it
mattered if I armed alpha charge before beta charge or not. And finally,
what was I supposed to do next after arming the charges? I decided to deal
with these in order. After making sure I hadn't missed anything to explore
in QUADRANT 3, I went out to SPACE and then to QUADRANT 4. This turned out
to be useless, since there were no hotspots in QUADRANT 4. But I would
never have known if I hadn't tried, now would I? So there. I then decided
to get on with it and arm the charges, and to take them in the order I'd
placed them (seemed reasonable, although in replaying, I found that the
order doesn't matter). I went out to SPACE and back to QUADRANT 2. There, I
USED the ARMING KEY with EXPLOSIVE UNIT ALPHA. I CALLED in to BORDEN to let
him know I was done, but this time I just SPOKE to him about the NUCLEAR
EXPLOSIVE. Beeping him turned out to be helpful, because he let me know
that I had nothing left to do but arm the explosives and return to the
shuttle. I went out to SPACE and back to QUADRANT 3, where I USED the
ARMING KEY with EXPLOSIVE UNIT BETA. I REPORTED back to BORDEN again on the
PENULTIMATE about the NUCLEAR EXPLOSIVE, and he told me to come back to the
shuttle. I went out to SPACE and then to the SHUTTLE. Back at the SHUTTLE,
nothing was happening so this wasn't going to be an automated sequence --
yet. I decided to CALL BORDEN on the PENULTIMATE again in case he was
waiting for me to check in when I got back. After TALKING to him about the
NUCLEAR EXPLOSIVE, we were all spirited back into the shuttle, retreated
from Attila, and nuked the living daylights out of it.

EXPLORING ATTILA

As you learn in the following cut-scene, your mission is a success so far.
Attila is in one piece, albeit somewhat fractured. Mission Control gives
the landing team the go-ahead to explore Attila, and after Miles sends the
pig down a tunnel to provide light, the landing team also descends into the
tunnel. Your geologist, Brink, lets you know that the tunnel wasn't created
by the blasting: it's ancient, but not as old as the asteroid itself and
feels unnatural. He also remarks that there are some odd projections
sticking from the inside of the tunnel. When he stops talking, the team is
hanging out inside the tunnel waiting for you to guide them. The screen
where you find yourself shows a METALLIC PLATE and three ODD PROJECTIONS.
It also scrolls downward to show the FLYING PIG and upward to show EARTH.
You can even exit the tunnel completely if you move far enough upscreen
(but why would you want to when there's a tunnel just crying out for
exploration and nowhere to go back at the surface)? I did LOOK at EARTH and
heard Boston remark that it was "comforting to know we can return home in
safety." <TWILIGHT Zone music> I then LOOKED at the METALLIC PLATE. Boston
and Brink agreed that it couldn't be natural and that someone put it there.
There's speculation that it might be some sort of message. At this point,
Boston comes clean with the group and tells them that he has had secret
orders all along to look for alien presence on Attila. He clamps down on
security, extracts promises from the landing team that they won't breach
the security he imposed, and sends a code to Earth through Borden to notify
Mission Control of what he's found. Then he gives the METALLIC PLATE a push
and it falls away. All that is left is a SMALL SHAFT, which I could only
OBSERVE. I decided to talk to my crew before doing anything else. None of
them had anything crucial to say, but it's worth doing to help fill out the
story. I next began exploring the hotspots on the screen. LOOKING at the
FLYING PIG just told me what it was. LOOKING at the ODD PROJECTIONS evoked
a few comments, but nothing more. I knew I had to do something with the ODD
PROJECTIONS (because they were _there_ and also because I needed some more
area to explore) so I contemplated my inventory. Since I was dealing with a
rock face, I first decided to try USING the ZERO-G DIGGER on the ODD
PROJECTION closest to where the SMALL SHAFT now was. Interestingly, it
worked, and revealed another METALLIC PLATE. I put away the ZERO-G DIGGER
and PUSHED this new METALLIC PLATE. It fell away, just like the last one,
into another SMALL SHAFT. I could only LOOK at this SMALL SHAFT also. It
was now clear to me that I should at least try to repeat this process on
the other two ODD PROJECTIONS. So I USED the ZERO-G DIGGER with each of the
remaining ODD PROJECTIONS and uncovered two more METALLIC PLATES. I PUSHED
the smaller METALLIC PLATE first. Down it went, leaving a SHAFT behind.
Again, I could only LOOK at the SHAFT. I had a pretty good feeling about
the last METALLIC PLATE, though. It was large and looked like it might be a
way into another area. Sure enough, it left behind a DARK TUNNEL when I
PUSHED it. The landing team passed through the DARK TUNNEL when I LOOKED at
it. At the end of the DARK TUNNEL, we entered a large cubic area (the CORE)
with only one new hotspot besides the entrance to the DARK TUNNEL -- the
PEDESTAL. The asteroid, as Brink then remarked, was hollow after all. (Now
I understood Borden's earlier comments about gravity and bubbles.) Boston
tried to contact the shuttle on the penultimate, but communications were
blocked. <MORE Twilight Zone music> I LOOKED at the PEDESTAL and was taken
to what appeared to be a puzzle screen consisting of four PLATES and some
SQUARE INDENTATIONS. It seemed painfully obvious that the PLATES were
supposed to go in the SQUARE INDENTATIONS. So I picked up the bottom PLATE
and USED it on the SQUARE INDENTATIONS. I was taken to a close-up screen of
the SQUARE INDENTATIONS, which showed the directions TOP, BOTTOM, RIGHT and
LEFT. I USED the PLATE on a couple of the directions until it settled in
the BOTTOM. I then EXITED and TOOK the remaining three PLATES. I placed
them all in inventory and decided to talk to my crew before going further.
BRINK identified the PLATES I'd picked up as the ones I'd pushed through
the shafts in the tunnel. And ROBBINS gave me a spoiler I didn't need --
that the plates could be arranged to fit the indentations. Aside from that,
their comments were fairly innocuous. So I decided to move on. I RETURNED
to the SQUARE INDENTATIONS and, once back at the close-up screen, I reached
into my inventory and took out the PLATES one by one and PLACED them in the
TOP, RIGHT, and LEFT spots. This time I tried to be a little less arbitrary
in how I placed them -- I tried to match them to the spaces that they
looked like they'd fit -- but since there aren't that many choices, it
doesn't really matter whether you bother with this exercise or not because
trial and error is pretty painless. When the last of the PLATES was placed,
a totally amazing thing happened! Attila began to move and hyperspaced
across the galaxy taking the crew with it! It settles in an island-looking
thing surrounded by five spires and the next thing I know, the crew are all
standing in an unfamiliar place, with planetoid gravity and a breathable
atmosphere. After taking off their spacesuits, the crew contemplates their
predicament: Attila was actually a starship created by alien life forms,
and they are far, far away from home indeed.

ON COCYTUS

Here again, I decided to get my crew's first impressions of the situation
before exploring myself. Call me a cautious commander. BRINK didn't have
much to offer except a cryptic remark that sometimes the best way down was
up and the best way up was down. ROBBINS had even less of import to tell
me. I couldn't reach my shuttle crew because of distance. (Every time I
tried to contact them later on, I had the same problem, so I've omitted the
times I tried that from the walkthru.) I started poking around where I was.
Our SPACESUITS lay on the ground next to me, but I couldn't take them. Same
result with our JETPACKS. There was a PLANT that I also couldn't pick up.
And the PLATFORM that we landed on, with which BRINK saw similarities to
ancient Peruvian masonry when I LOOKED at it. My other options were the SKY
and a CLEARING. I decided to take a LOOK at the SKY first. Above us, a
LARGE MOON and a DISTANT MOON, smaller than the LARGE MOON, orbited the
planet. I chose CANYON to exit this screen and moved on to the CLEARING. At
this point, Brink gave his first indication of challenging my authority,
but Maggie jumped to my defense and he backed down. From the CLEARING
screen, I could see three hotspots with ?s on them. I went to the rightmost
one at the base of what looked like a tall mound first. Maybe there would
be a way to climb up the mound and get to another area. After discussion,
however, it was clear we couldn't climb the slope. And there were no
hotspots in this area except my own crew; hence, nothing to do here at the
moment. So I went back to the CLEARING to try another of the ?s. I made a
mental note that at some point later on it might be worth revisiting the
spot I'd just left, which was now identified on the CLEARING screen as DIRT
RAMP. I went to the next closest ? toward the top of the screen. There were
some small rodents running around and a GRAVE here with some TUSKS sticking
out of it. Brink noted that the animal remains seemed to have been placed
as markers of some sort. I decided to take a closer LOOK at both the GRAVE
and the TUSKS, so I LOOKED at the GRAVE first. Boston remarked that it
looked like something was buried there, so I decided to try digging up
whatever it was. I USED the SHOVEL on the GRAVE, and after Brink yelled at
me for being destructive, I dug until I'd opened up the GRAVE. The TUSKS on
top of the GRAVE had fallen to the ground, so I TOOK one (note that you can
also TAKE the TUSK directly from the mound before digging the GRAVE if you
wish). Boston remarked that it felt as strong as steel. I SHOWED it to both
of my crew members by clicking it on them. (Now that you know how to show
things to people, I won't tell you how to do this every time to save you
still more download time. Hahahahaha again again.) Maggie noted that the
tip was sharp. Brink just smarted off. I briefly considered that the TUSK
might be used later in connection with something that required its strength
and sharpness. Then I noticed a JAWBONE, so I TOOK it. When Boston picked
it up, he said that the teeth still looked strong. When I SHOWED it to
Maggie, she said that the teeth still looked sharp. Brink didn't have
anything valuable to say. I briefly considered that the JAWBONE might be
used later in connection with something that required its strength and
sharpness. (Cool, huh? I just had to copy that last part of the sentence
and paste it in <GRIN>.) Now the only thing left to LOOK at were BONES, but
I couldn't take any more of them. So I went back to the CLEARING to check
out the last ?. I noticed that the place I'd just visited was now called
the GRAVE on the CLEARING screen. The last ? had the remains of some sort
of spacecraft in it toward the left, as the game showed me automatically.
On my starting screen, I could see part of an ENGINE, so I LOOKED at it.
Boston told me that it was hopelessly ruined. Since we'd moved closer to
the craft while looking at the ENGINE, I could now see two more hotspots --
another ENGINE and the WRECK itself. I checked out the other ENGINE first,
and learned that the ENGINES were enormous but that there was no evidence
of combustion. Brink thought that the ship wasn't of the same technology as
the other evidence we'd seen so far. LOOKING at this ENGINE had also
scrolled us farther to the left, so I checked for a way out by walking the
party to the left as far as I could. There wasn't one. The only thing left
to do now was INVESTIGATE the WRECK, so I did and we went inside. Brink
insisted on looking around, but apparently, the sight rendered him
speechless. There was a CHEST here, and it OPENED to reveal a DEVICE which
I took. I SHOWED the DEVICE to my crew, but they didn't have much to say
about it. I put it in my inventory and from there EXAMINED it, but this
didn't tell me anything new either. I did notice, though, that when I tried
to pick it up again, I USED it automatically. It gave an indication to the
right. Some sort of compass? Hmmm. Maybe. To early to tell. There was also
a HANGING WIRE here, and I knew from playing other games that this could be
a useful item if I could take it -- or maybe Boston would climb it or
something. If I could take it, it might be used as a rope to climb
somewhere or to tie something to something else, or otherwise to connect
two things together. I didn't know yet, but it seemed a great find. I
PULLED the WIRE -- and something really strange happened. A swirling light
came down seemingly from nowhere, and as Brink noted, it formed different
shapes of polyhedrons. Then it disappeared as quickly as it came. I PICKED
UP the WIRE, which had fallen to the ground, and everyone agreed with my
initial instinct that it might be useful when I SHOWED it to the crew. But
where the swirling light had crossed, there was now something else -- an
ENGRAVED ROD. I TOOK the ENGRAVED ROD. Everyone was baffled by it when I
SHOWED it to them. How could we have missed it when we first walked in?
Unless the light... but no, Brink thought that was too ridiculous to even
contemplate. Since I'd skimmed the game booklet before playing (I generally
do before jumping in -- no telling what good info you might find in there)
and it had suggested examining rods, I EXAMINED the ENGRAVED ROD and found
that the rod was engraved (duh) and had five geometric shapes. Funny. Brink
had said that the swirling lights formed polyhedrons and now I had some
geometric shapes here in solid matter. Had the lights been trying to tell
us something? There was nothing left to do here now (unless I wanted to
keep opening and closing the chest until the next millennium), so I decided
to go back to where I'd started and assess my options. But first, I decided
to check with my crew to see whether they had anything new to say. I
noticed when I SPOKE to BRINK that I had a new option for the STRANGE
LIGHTS. I went through all of the options again. He wasn't much help except
to encourage me to keep trying to pick up everything I saw. (He must have
played a lot of adventure games.) ROBBINS didn't have much to offer, except
to speculate that the lights could have been alive, to which Boston said,
if so it wasn't organic life. Inorganic life? What a concept! We went
OUTSIDE and after RECHECKING the ENGINES and learning little new, headed
back to the CLEARING. Here, we learned that the place we'd just been was no
longer a ? but a WRECK, and that we had started from a DAIS. Upon returning
to the DAIS, the swirling lights appeared again and seemed to be pointing
to a patch of ground to the right of the screen. Maggie thought that they
were trying to tell or show us something. The group wondered aloud whether
the lights were alive, or maybe an automatic guidance system. This made a
connection in my mind. The blue, orb-like DEVICE I'd picked up in the WRECK
also seemed to be some sort of guidance system, since it had pointed a
particular direction when I last USED it. Before doing anything else, I
decided to USE the DEVICE again. It was pointing behind me. I got the idea
that perhaps it was pointing to one of the other locations in the CLEARING
that I'd been to, and since it had pointed elsewhere at the WRECK and the
DAIS, and also since I hadn't been able to do anything at the DIRT RAMP
before, I decided to try there first. From the CLEARING, we returned to the
DIRT RAMP and I USED the DEVICE here. It pointed directly at a SMALL MOUND
that hadn't been there on my first trip through. I USED the SHOVEL with the
SMALL MOUND in the hopes that something might be buried there, too. I DUG a
HOLE inside of which there was a BRACELET that I TOOK. My crew didn't have
much to say about the BRACELET when I SHOWED it to them except for one quip
of Brink's, that it might be useful as well as ornamental. Since Boston now
had the BRACELET, I decided to see what would happen if I now USED the
DEVICE. It pointed at Boston. So Brink was right, it _was_ useful! Now I
knew that the DEVICE tracked the BRACELET, and since I'd encountered
tracking devices before in adventure games, I suspected that at some point
down the road I'd need to put the BRACELET somewhere and use the DEVICE to
find it again. Finding nothing more to do at the DIRT RAMP, I determined to
carry on with my original idea -- to return to the DAIS, consider all of
what I'd learned so far, and formulate a plan. As it happened, the plan
wasn't long in coming. I TALKED through all conversation options with my
crew, and both BRINK and ROBBINS were in favor of taking a closer look at
the area where the strange lights had hovered when we had returned to the
DAIS previously. I didn't have any better idea, so I obliged them. The spot
where the strange lights had seemed to point was now a new hotspot, a SMALL
HOLE, which Boston said was too small and dark to see if it led anywhere.
Oh, goodie! If I could enlarge the hole, and/or illuminate it, maybe we'd
find a passage. I used the SHOVEL with the SMALL HOLE and Boston began to
dig yet again (by now the game's name made a lot of sense). He observed
that the ground was soft, and that perhaps there was an opening that had
been covered up by drifting soil. Brink insisted on taking over the
digging, and, most unfortunately, the opening gave way and he fell through
the hole!

IN THE NEXUS: Morgie's Day 1

After this happens, you see Maggie and Boston climb down a ramp of dirt and
rock that had formed when the SMALL HOLE collapsed. They finally reach
Brink. Alas, he's dead, and Boston feels terribly guilty about that. Maggie
decides that it's best to split up and separately try to find clues about
how to get home. There wasn't anything I could do to stop her, and I was
sorry to see her go. Oh well, I could still talk to her on the PENULTIMATE.
With one dead crew member and one absent one, I had no choice but to
explore on my own for awhile. Good thing there was plenty to see. First, I
put away my trusty SHOVEL, then paid my respects to BRINK'S BODY. I
considered that it was unusually early in the game for him to pop off, and
this planted the seed in my mind that perhaps some place, thing or person
in the game would be able to bring him back to life. After all, he was an
archaeologist, and it was likely that I'd need his skills to understand
this unusual place, even though he had turned out to be a haughty kind of
guy. Not to mention that there was a picture of an area I hadn't been to
yet on the game box in which Brink appeared as well as Boston. To the left,
I saw a PLATE lying on the ground. It looked just like one of the plates
we'd found on Attila. I TOOK it. There were also some GLOWING PLANTS, which
took energy from Boston when he TOUCHED them. He remarked that they must
share a common root system. I moved on to the left, and saw a PANEL and a
SEALED DOOR. The PANEL took me to a screen with four strange BUTTONS on it
when I LOOKED at it. They looked like a control for the SEALED DOOR, but
since I wasn't sure what to do with them for now, I EXITED. Nothing
happened with the SEALED DOOR when I gave it a PUSH. Moving on to the left,
I saw a RAMP and a DARK TUNNEL. I decided to finish checking out the rest
of the room before exploring these. Going left again, I found another PANEL
and another SEALED DOOR. This PANEL, too, had strange BUTTONS, and this
SEALED DOOR was also shut tight. Continuing my leftward trek, I found a
PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD. After TAKING it, I EXAMINED it and found some colored
geometric symbols on it. NOTE: I discovered in replaying the game that the
symbols appear to be set randomly from game to game. In my first game, I
had a red "circle," a green "hexagon", a blue "triangle", and a red
"hexagon" on the PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD. In the second game, progressing from
a prior save, I had a red "triangle", a green "hexagon," a green "cube",
and another red "triangle" on this same rod. So you'll have to look
carefully at your own PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD (as well as the others mentioned
below) to distinguish the shapes and colors, as I don't think anything I
could offer would help here. The shapes seemed to resemble the BUTTONS on
the PANELS I'd found, and therefore I speculated that they held a
combination to the SEALED DOORS' locks. After noting this, I moved on.
Behind Boston, another PANEL and SEALED DOOR awaited. I found the
characteristics of these identical to the first two I'd seen. To the left,
I saw a COLUMN. I LOOKED at it and learned that it had smooth grooves on
its surface, but not much more. Continuing left, I encountered a fourth
SEALED DOOR and PANEL, that were just like the first three. Finally, just
before I completed the circle and found myself back at BRINK'S BODY, I
found another SEALED DOOR. This one did not have a PANEL next to it, but it
did have an ALCOVE. When I LOOKED at the ALCOVE, I found myself at a puzzle
screen very similar to the one I had seen on Attila, with TOP, BOTTOM, LEFT
and RIGHT slots. Plates had worked before on a similar puzzle, and luckily
I was carrying one. The PLATE that I had was shaped just like the BOTTOM
space, so I PUT it on the BOTTOM and it attached there. I EXITED, thinking
that somehow, somewhere, I'd need to find three more plates. Since there
was no PANEL next to this fifth door, I made the working assumption that
the ALCOVE was this door's control and the PLATES were what triggered it.
Having completed my circle, I decided to explore the other areas available
to me before attempting to figure out just how the PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD
might work with the PANELS. I chose the RAMP first. Upon descending the
RAMP, I found myself in an eerie, hot space with a glowing area below.
Boston figured it was the power source for the place I was in and commented
to the effect that he'd need to figure out how to turn the power on. (This
was my first clue that I'd need to turn on the power.) A LOOSE PLATE behind
Boston came off when I OPENED it, and inside I found a BLUE CRYSTAL. I was
able to TAKE the BLUE CRYSTAL, but when I did everything became dark. So I
decided to PUT it back for the time being so that I could see better.
Obviously, it was some form of light source, because all became bright
again when I RETURNED it to the EMPTY SLOT. I next LOOKED down over the
EDGE and saw an UNATTACHED LENS. I had the sense that I was supposed to get
it somehow, but how was beyond me. I tried a few things, like USING the
WIRE with the EDGE in the hopes that I could climb down there, but nothing
worked. Probably because it was white hot down there and I would have
fried, but this didn't occur to me at the time. Nor did I notice the other
hotspots here since the UNATTACHED LENS was so obvious, it distracted me.
Next to the EDGE I saw a CONTROL PANEL with a number of BUTTONS that I
found in a close-up screen when I LOOKED at it. Each BUTTON caused a
colored circle to appear on a screen to the right when I PUSHED it. This
control reminded me of the game Mastermind, and I tried for awhile to see
if I could win. I didn't make any progress, but I did notice that the
center BUTTON could only be PRESSED once in a row, while the others that
produced colors could be PRESSED multiple times in a row. Two of the
BUTTONS removed the colored circles. One removed them one at a time and the
other removed all of them. I USED the "remove all" BUTTON to clear my messy
screen and EXITED. Further to the left was a TRIANGULAR BUTTON. Nothing
happened when I PUSHED it. Baffled, I decided to try the DARK TUNNEL. I
went up to the NEXUS and into the DARK TUNNEL. I ended up in a lovely
crystalline space on a sort of stone bridge. Toward the left, after
scrolling as far as I could go, the bridge ended at a glass house-looking
thing with two hotspots for BUTTONS. I PUSHED the nearest BUTTON and a door
opened. I walked inside and now could see an AIRLOCK DOOR. I figured I'd
need to close the door behind me before I could get through to lock out
unwanted air, so I PUSHED the second BUTTON and the first door shut.
Another PUSH on this BUTTON opened the AIRLOCK DOOR and I went through it.
(Now that you know how to operate the AIRLOCK DOOR, which works the same in
reverse, I'm not going to repeat this every time to save you... yeah, you
guessed it.) I wound up in a circular room with six large WINDOWS around
the periphery. I LOOKED through each of the six WINDOWS and learned a bit
about where I was from Boston's remarks. A system of tunnels passed
underwater, connecting the large, central island (the NEXUS) with other,
smaller islands. I imagined I'd have to get into those tunnels somehow.
Through the left-hand side WINDOWS I could see a crystalline tube, which
appeared to be one of the tunnels. Hmm. I wasn't sure at this point, but
maybe the SEALED DOORS I'd seen led to the tunnels. They seemed to be the
only openings available to me in the NEXUS, so that would make sense. The
center of the room showed a GLOWING PANEL, which I decided to EXPLORE. This
took me to a screen that showed four energized CRYSTALS, three empty HOLES,
a CRYSTAL CLUSTER where all the crystals met, and one dark, lifeless
CRYSTAL. I figured I'd have to replace that dark CRYSTAL or something at
some point, but I wasn't sure how to do it. (I later went back and tried
every crystal I picked up in the game on it hoping to replace it, including
the BLUE CRYSTAL from the RAMP area and the GLOWING CRYSTALS discussed
below, to no avail.) I tried PUTTING the PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD and the
ENGRAVED ROD in the HOLES, but neither fit. Not sure what to do here
either, I EXITED and returned out through the AIRLOCK and back through the
DARK TUNNEL to the NEXUS. I had a couple more ideas up my sleeve before I
could call myself stuck. The first was to try the PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD with
all the PANELS. The second was to try a bit harder to figure out how to get
that UNATTACHED LENS. But before I tried either one of these, I decided to
BUZZ ROBBINS on the PENULTIMATE to see if she had any ideas. I went through
all the conversation options with her. In addition to some chit-chat, she
told me she was busy deciphering symbols that were all over the place where
she was, and that I might want to figure out how to turn on the lights.
(This was my second clue that I had to turn the power on.) She also
continued trying to convince me that the strange lights, or ghosts as we
were now calling them, had been trying to lead us down here. Boston
suggested that she continue learning the language while he found more
PLATES for the ALCOVE so that she could read any directions as to how to
use them. I didn't realize it at the time, but this was a rather hefty clue
as to what I'd need to do at a later point in the game.

IN THE NEXUS: Morgie Loses It On Day 1

After talking to Maggie, I knew that I'd have to turn the power on since
there had been two mentions of that, but I didn't make the right connection
just then. I didn't see these clues as an indication that the game had gone
from somewhat nonlinear while we were exploring the surface, to linear down
in the NEXUS. If I had, I would have focused on turning on the power to the
exclusion of all else. But it was after midnight, I'd been playing for a
number of hours, and I was tired. So I made a wrong choice here and started
focusing on the PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD. I plugged the combination into each
PANEL by HITTING the BUTTONS until the shapes and colors matched. I tried
going from left to right and from right to left in the order they appeared
on the rod. Then I thought: well, there are four shapes and four doors, so
maybe each door is coded to a shape? So I plugged in a straight row of each
shape/color to each of the panels. I also tried to match the order of
colors with each single shape (e.g., red triangle, green triangle, blue
triangle, red triangle since this was the color order in my game). Then I
tried to see a connection between the shapes of the doors, the shapes of
the panels, and the shapes on the rod. Nothing worked and I was close to
exasperation. I even tried USING the PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD on the PANELS, and
Boston confirmed my suspicions that it was a key of some sort. But, he
mused, is it the key to this lock? This was something of a hint to me that
instead of being a key to _all_ doors, it was only a key to one of them.
But for the life of me, I couldn't get _any_ of them to work. I resorted to
EXAMINING all the SEALED DOORS and PANELS and tried to narrow down my
options by focusing on the one door that had "four bright crystals" instead
of dark ones. Still no luck. I finally got really bored with PUSHING
BUTTONS and moving shapes around with no success, so I went back down the
RAMP to see if anything made more sense this time around. This time, I did
notice more hotspots when I looked over the EDGE. In addition to the
UNATTACHED LENS, there were three LENSES and a LENS SLOT with the lens
missing. Now I saw the logic here. I somehow had to get the UNATTACHED LENS
into the LENS SLOT. I was dealing with a broken alien machine. Who would
have thunk it. But I still wasn't sure how to get from point A to point B.
I TOOK the BLUE CRYSTAL again (at least it was something I _could_ do) and
decided to have another go at the CONTROL PANEL. This time, also, when I
PUSHED the TRIANGULAR BUTTON, nothing happened. I PUT the BLUE CRYSTAL back
in case it was necessary to run the power, and HIT the TRIANGULAR BUTTON
again. Now I was cooking with something less than Crisco -- some
bizarre-shaped thing came down out of a chute, went over the EDGE and moved
around down near the power source. What the heck was it doing? Gathering
power and taking it to the surface? I fiddled with the CONTROL PANEL and
the TRIANGULAR BUTTON a few more times, usually clearing my screen when I
was done and once (apparently) leaving the colored circles there. I was
able to get that thing to come down another time, but the next time I
mucked around with the CONTROL PANEL nothing happened when I PUSHED the
TRIANGULAR BUTTON. I just didn't get it. Tired, annoyed, and feeling quite
the inadequate adventurer, I decided to post a message to my fellow player,
hercules, who was at the time at least a day ahead of me in playing time.
We had made a pact that we wouldn't read any hint messages to help
ourselves and only start reading them after we finished (I started reading
messages about puzzles I was certain I'd completed before I was totally
finished with the game), but that I could whine to him if I felt like it.
"Don't tell me the answer," I said after explaining all I'd done. I just
wanted to whine, I didn't want to concede defeat yet. He posted back that I
should pick one puzzle to work on because the game became linear at this
point. But which one? I wondered. What if I barked up the wrong engraved
rod for days? I decided to call it a night. Maybe the answer would come to
me in a dream.

IN THE NEXUS: Morgie's Day 2

It wasn't a dream, but it was close. As I fell asleep, I thought about all
that had happened and all that I'd learned. And when I woke up, the thing
that finally stood out to me was: GET THE POWER ON. Both Boston and Maggie
had mentioned it, so it must be important. And since the power source was
down the RAMP, the CONTROL PANEL and TRIANGULAR BUTTON had to be the things
to use. I'd wondered the night before how it was I'd managed to get that
thing to come down the chute twice, and thought at first that it had
something to do with the BLUE CRYSTAL either being in place or not. (It
turned out that the BLUE CRYSTAL affected only whether the TRIANGULAR
BUTTON would work, not whether the thing would come down the chute.)
Thinking about it in the stark light of day, I had an epiphany. What if the
CONTROL PANEL and the TRIANGULAR BUTTON were somehow connected? They were
both controls, so that would make sense. When I tried again, I noticed that
I could make the thing come down from the chute _every time_ without fail,
so long as the BLUE CRYSTAL was in place and there were colors appearing on
the CONTROL PANEL before I PUSHED the TRIANGULAR BUTTON. Even one colored
dot was enough to get a reaction out of the chute, but the more dots on the
CONTROL PANEL, the longer the thing stayed down there and the more it moved
around before zipping back up the chute. I can't explain exactly how it
came to me what I had to do here. Having stopped playing DUNGEON MASTER II
to pick up THE DIG (I'd been waiting for THE DIG eagerly since adventure
guru Leo Drago and I first saw a demo of it at the winter 1994 CES), I'd
recently had occasion to deal with "porter minions" that would pick up
items for my characters, move them to a desired location and drop them
there. Perhaps it was this, or the way the dots seemed to make a difference
in the way the thing moved down by the LENSES, or both, that made me
realize that the thing from the chute was a remote control device with
which I could MOVE the UNATTACHED LENS into the LENS SLOT, that the CONTROL
PANEL directed its movement, and that the TRIANGULAR BUTTON initiated the
sequence. Now I just had to figure out which colors made the thing do what.
I was pretty sure just through intuition that the center BUTTON (which
could only be pressed once in a row) was the grab/release mechanism and the
others would make the thing move specific directions. The simplest way to
figure out what the BUTTONS did seemed to be to plug in a line of one color
on the CONTROL PANEL, PUSH the TRIANGULAR BUTTON, watch what happened, and
then repeat with the next color. This way I'd be able to devise a program
that would get the thing to the UNATTACHED LENS, grab it, take it to the
LENS SLOT, and drop it there. I found through this system that the BUTTONS
did the following: purple, move left; blue, move up; green, move right;
yellow, move down. Knowing this, I devised the following program (I had to
PUSH the TRIANGULAR BUTTON a few times as I was putting the program
together to make sure it was working right): yellow, yellow, purple,
purple, purple, purple, orange (take lens), blue, blue, blue, blue, blue,
blue, orange (drop lens). When I had it all plugged in, I PUSHED the
TRIANGULAR BUTTON one last time, and sat back to admire my creation as it
worked just as expected. The next time I LOOKED over the EDGE, the power
was operating normally. Yaaaa-hooooo! I saw no reason to keep the lights on
down here, so I TOOK the BLUE CRYSTAL and went back up to the NEXUS. Now
maybe one of the doors would finally open. I just had to figure out which
one. I thought it might be interesting at this point to just take a look
around and see if anything had changed now that the power was on, so I
started moving in my favorite direction (left) around the room again. I saw
that the COLUMN now had some cool purple and white lights moving up it, so
I LOOKED closer. A huge amount of energy now flowed along the COLUMN. I
wondered where it was going, and I told myself that I'd go back outside
soon to see if I could find out the answer. To the right of the COLUMN,
some SPARKS came up through an energy conduit in the floor. The SEALED DOOR
here was still shut tight, and when I EXAMINED its PANEL, I found it
corroded, and its crystal buttons dark. Seemed as though I'd have to fix
this problem and light up those crystals before I could hope to get this
door open. I recalled the WIRE I had, and USED it with the SPARKS. Boston
reminded me that I'd have to attach the jumper cables to the dead battery
first, but I couldn't find anything to attach the WIRE to on the PANEL.
Maybe, then, this wasn't where I should use the WIRE? But I couldn't USE it
with the next PANEL to the left or with the COLUMN, and it didn't look long
enough to string across the entire NEXUS. So, taking Boston's car metaphor
a bit further, perhaps I'd have to pop the hood on the nearest PANEL. I
happened to have an item noted for its strength and sharpness, and that as
an added benefit was shaped like a prying tool -- the TUSK. I USED the TUSK
with the PANEL and the cover came off. When I EXAMINED the inside of the
PANEL, I found a corroded mess that wasn't getting any power. So I USED the
WIRE with the PANEL, and then with the SPARKS. Et voila! Now the crystals
were bright! Unfortunately, I made a wrong assumption here that was the
beginning of a snowball effect into Morgie losing it on day 2. I latched on
to the concept that the PANEL I'd just fixed had to be the one that the
PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD corresponded to. I tried backwards, forwards, and all
of my convoluted combinations again without success. So I moved on to the
next door to the left, and went straight for its PANEL. Again, I had no
luck. I skipped the next door, which had the ALCOVE next to it and went on
to a third PANEL. Again, no luck.

IN THE NEXUS: Morgie Loses It On Day 2

Somehow, I now became hopelessly confused. I think what happened was: I
left the game to get lunch and run errands, then returned to the game and
mistakenly believed that I was trying to open the one door I hadn't tried
yet, when in actuality, I was working on the third one again. In any event,
I tried and I tried, and I was absolutely convinced that I had tried all
four doors and my rod wouldn't work on any of them! I went to GAMERS hoping
to bump into hercules to ask him what was going on. But he was nowhere to
be found, and I was so convinced that something was wrong, and so sick of
PUSHING BUTTONS and moving shapes with no result again, that I grit my
teeth, broke my promise to my fellow player, and looked on the message
board for a likely thread, fully prepared to avert my eyes and hit <ENTER>
to get to the next message at the slightest sign of anything that I hadn't
yet experienced in the game. I only found one message that could have
applied, and it suggested that the BLUE CRYSTAL had to be in place in the
power room for the doors to work. So I schlepped the BLUE CRYSTAL back to
the EMPTY SLOT again (and _left_ it there until I had no choice but to
retrieve it later in the game since it seemed to control so many things)
and tried the first door I came to when I got back to the NEXUS. Here I
noticed, before I started banging on the PANEL, that the SEALED DOOR was
now emitting a low hum, and I (wrongly, as it turned out) believed that
that meant it was ripe for opening. (I discovered in replaying that three
of the four doors with PANELS were humming, so this wasn't the clue I
thought it was). I plugged in the combination on the PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD as
it appeared there from left to right and the SEALED DOOR opened! I took
time out from this minor triumph to make a mental note that left to right
appeared to be the right order in which to read the combination, in case I
should come upon another similar one later. Looking back now, I see that
this happened to be the fourth door -- the one I'd skipped the first time
when I started wandering around the NEXUS to see what had changed, and had
in fact never tried before. <SHEEPISH grin> For days thereafter, I swore up
and down to hercules that the BLUE CRYSTAL controlled the doors somehow. He
was too polite to laugh at me (a first for him) but kept suggesting that if
that were so, it would be a nonsensical puzzle since the BLUE CRYSTAL
seemed only to be a light source. Having just replayed this part several
times, I am here to tell you: the BLUE CRYSTAL has _no effect_ whatsoever
on whether the doors will open. The only things you have to do to open the
first door are turn on the power in the NEXUS and find the one door that
will open with the PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD's combination. You don't even have
to use the WIRE on the other PANEL first. Tip: Resist the urge to leave the
game, eat lunch, and run errands, or otherwise do anything that might deter
you from completing a systematic testing of each of the SEALED DOORS with
PANELS until you get that damned door open.

ON THE MUSEUM SPIRE, PART 1

I now had another place to go after what seemed like an eternity of
bumbling around in the NEXUS, but first I wanted to check in with Maggie --
and also to go outside again and see if I could learn more about where the
energy flowing on the COLUMN might be going. I RANG up ROBBINS on the
PENULTIMATE and told her about my discovery of the lock combinations. Since
she had no discoveries of her own to share with me, I went on up into the
CANYON. Here I saw that energy was now rising from the PLATFORM and forming
a GLOWING SPHERE in the SKY. That was enough for me. I left the CANYON
through the SMALL HOLE and decided to see what was behind door #1 (and
whether I'd want to trade it for what was behind the curtain). Through the
OPEN DOOR, I came onto a platform of sorts, and now Maggie called _me_ to
tell me she'd found a room full of alien technology with working machines.
But she didn't know exactly where she was and couldn't tell me how to get
there. I got the irrepressibly clever idea to CALL her right back on the
PENULTIMATE, and when I asked her for a progress report on deciphering the
language, she gave me the thorough razzing that I so greatly deserved. The
new area I'd come to had only one hotspot -- a ? on a pyramid shaped stone
structure. Boston PUSHED it and a circular thing arrived in response. I
learned that instead of a ?, I now had a TRAM CALL, with the circular thing
being a TRAM. I BOARDED the TRAM, and it rolled away through one of those
crystalline tubes I'd seen through the WINDOWS in the AIRLOCK. Interesting.
So the SEALED DOORS _did_ lead to those tunnels I'd seen. Boston got out of
the TRAM in a place that had a WEAKENED DOOR, a RUINED DOOR, and a passage
to the OUTSIDE. I couldn't OPEN the WEAKENED DOOR without help, so I made a
note to try again when I met up with Maggie or found someone else who might
be able to help me. Since I was told nothing could OPEN the RUINED DOOR, I
took this as a challenge and tried USING the TUSK and the SHOVEL on it.
Neither worked, and I gave thanks that the game wasn't lying to me so early
in our relationship. Then I went OUTSIDE. I discovered a FOSSIL on the
ground that I LOOKED at and EXAMINED. Bones of some creature had hardened
into the rock, but I couldn't do anything with them so I EXITED and took a
walk down to the WATER. When I arrived, a strange animal crawled up onto a
rock next to me. Then, as I watched, a horrible sea monster grabbed it and
ate it. Luckily the monster didn't come after me. When I LOOKED at the
WATER, I convinced myself that swimming in the same water as that monster
was a bad idea. (This was my first clue that I had to get rid of the
monster). I took the PATH back up to the shore and then went UP the spire
further. In this area, I found a STRANGE DEVICE, and when I LOOKED at it,
another of those strange light ghosts appeared and swirled around it.
Boston remarked that the last one had pointed the way to the NEXUS. (This
was my first clue that I had to do something with the STRANGE DEVICE.) The
STRANGE DEVICE had a PANEL on one side that I couldn't OPEN. Below, a LENS
was attached to the rock, and I found that I could MOVE the LENS into three
different positions. When I LOOKED again at the STRANGE DEVICE, I could see
what appeared to be its controls -- a SWITCH that made a glowing shape
appear when I PRESSED it, and a colored piece that made no sense to me.
Neither did the pictures on the left side. I didn't have any idea what to
do here for now, so I EXITED and went through a DOOR. The place I now
entered seemed to be a museum. I TOOK some GLOWING CRYSTALS that were lying
on the ground and EXAMINED them (there were two). I also TOOK a TABLET that
looked like it had an alphabet on it and EXAMINED that, too. The TABLET had
a complex picture on it that I couldn't figure out. Above where I'd seen
the TABLET, I found a DISPLAY of changing pictures. Some of the symbols
reminded me of ones I'd seen on the STRANGE DEVICE outside, but I wasn't
sure exactly what the exhibit was telling me. I LOOKED at the DISPLAY (and
the ones described below) several times, but I still couldn't interpret
this one fully. Later on, I concluded that it had something to do with how
to use the STRANGE DEVICE. Still later, I learned that this conclusion was
probably wrong, even though it had helped me to figure out how to use the
STRANGE DEVICE. Funny how that works, isn't it? To the left, another
DISPLAY showed a dragon-like beast going (or being put) into a triangular
shape and some other pictures in which moons figured prominently. Boston
wondered if this DISPLAY depicted some sort of burial chamber. When I
WATCHED the DISPLAY a second time, Boston noted that the larger moon was
being eclipsed by the smaller one. This made me think of the two moons I'd
seen in the SKY at the DAIS, and I suspected that this exhibit had
something to do with an eclipse that had happened here on this planet at
one time. The DISPLAY next to the eclipse exhibit showed something breaking
over what looked to be a skeleton, and the skeleton transforming into a
beast. "Hmmm," was all Boston could say. I agreed with him. At this point,
I noticed something red on a platform toward the left of the screen -- a
RED ENGRAVED ROD. Yay! The key to another door! Now I knew I wouldn't be
stuck wandering around in the museum until Christmas. I EXAMINED it, and
saw four more nifty colored shapes, which made me feel confident that it
would work just as the PURPLE ENGRAVED ROD had. On the same platform, a
last DISPLAY showed some beasts putting something into something else, and
Boston quipped, "that canister sure packs a punch." Each time I watched
thereafter, he made a little-boy-like noise that imitated an explosion. I
still had a DOOR to explore here, but before going off into the unknown, I
decided to see if anything I'd just done gave me anything new to talk to
Maggie about. I found when I CALLED ROBBINS on the PENULTIMATE that, in
fact, it had. Of the TABLET, she would only tell me that it wasn't the same
set of symbols she was working with, that it seemed designed so that
strangers couldn't read it, and that she'd try again to read it when she'd
learned more. (This was my first clue that Maggie might be able to
interpret the inscriptions on the TABLET.) About the GLOWING CRYSTALS,
Boston asked whether Maggie believed that the dead could be raised. Gotcha.
That was what the DISPLAY with the skeleton and the beast was all about. I
knew now that I'd go back to BRINK'S BODY at the first opportunity and USE
the GLOWING CRYSTALS on him. But the DOOR beckoned and it was kind of a
hike back to the NEXUS, so I went through the DOOR -- and met up with
Maggie! She was in a sort of library and told me she felt close to making
some breakthroughs on the language so she didn't want to hook back up with
me. (Ok, fine. I'd just try to get Brink to help me with that WEAKENED DOOR
if the GLOWING CRYSTALS worked. So there.) I TALKED to ROBBINS again while
I was there, and she told me she was retrieving a lot of data in the
LIBRARY, but wasn't sure what it all meant yet. I LOOKED at the three
CONSOLES that appeared along the LIBRARY's walls. They seemed to be part of
a single computerized data retrieval system, that contained data in many
languages. I couldn't think of anything else to do here for now, so I
figured I'd go back and try my luck at resurrecting Brink. I went back
through the MUSEUM, to the OUTSIDE and DOWN the spire. On a whim, I went
back down to the WATER, and another of my animal friends (the last of which
had become a meal for the sea monster before my horrified eyes), a SEA
CREATURE, appeared and started to feed on some plants. I LOOKED at the SEA
CREATURE and discovered it was kind of six-legged turtle. I couldn't TAKE
it, and it didn't seem to want to follow me. It just chowed down for
awhile, then jumped back in the water. I noticed that it would return from
time to time in different spots as long as I stood there, but anything I
tried to USE with it risked frightening it, so I thought perhaps something
might be missing that I'd need to use with it. For now, I'd take the TRAM
back to the NEXUS. I felt a sense of power knowing I could open up another
door if I wanted to, but I thought I'd save that as something to do if I
got stuck again (hopefully that wouldn't happen, but you never know). I
marched straight over to BRINK'S BODY and USED the GLOWING CRYSTALS on him.
Sure enough, they were in fact life crystals. Brink came back to life --
but, as he explained, it wasn't just any old life. He now felt more
powerful and alive than ever before. During this cut-scene, we let Maggie
know that Brink was back. Everyone marvelled at how miraculous the life
crystals were. It was now more important than ever that we find our way
back to Earth. This discovery could change... everything.

ON THE MUSEUM SPIRE, PART 2

Having just been dead, Brink probably had a thing or two to say that the
average person doesn't, so I CHATTED with him. He seemed inordinately
interested in those life crystals, claiming that Maggie could learn the
planet's language faster if she used one, and that we must find more and
more and more. I tried showing Brink the new things I'd found since his
death and resurrection -- but Boston balked at showing him the remaining
GLOWING CRYSTAL, saying that it could be a "really bad idea." I guessed
that Brink would have taken it, tried to use it to achieve fame and glory
when he got back home, and take all the credit for discovering it. Boy, was
I wrong. But at least now I had someone who might be able to help me get
that WEAKENED DOOR open. Time to go back to the MUSEUM SPIRE. Brink
followed me back through the MUSEUM TRAM door and into the TRAM. When we
arrived, he did help me OPEN the WEAKENED DOOR. Inside we found a huge
basin of LIFE CRYSTALS. A ghost appeared and gave us a signal that Boston
believed showed the crystals were dangerous. I TOOK as many of the LIFE
CRYSTALS as I could carry despite the warning, just in case. Unfortunately,
so did Brink. I also found a CANISTER here, so I TOOK it. I EXAMINED it and
learned that it looked remarkably like the one that had "packed a punch" in
the MUSEUM DISPLAY I'd seen. We went out through the DOOR, and even Brink
couldn't help me with the RUINED DOOR. I was starting to trust this game. I
wondered if it was married? I started to think about friends I could set it
up with ("I know this really nice game... you'll like, you'll like"). We
went OUTSIDE, but my archaeologist didn't have anything to tell me about
the FOSSIL. Maybe he'd have an idea about what to do with the SEA CREATURE.
Fat chance. When we went down by the WATER, sure enough, the SEA CREATURE
surfaced again. This one must not have been as tasty as the last, because
instead of swallowing it, the sea monster spat it out. Brink promptly
disappeared after this encounter, and I told Maggie he'd run away. I now
had a serious suspicion that the LIFE CRYSTALS were addictive and Brink had
become an addict. Where the SEA CREATURE had been while alive, before
tempting the monster, I found some LOOSE BONES. When I LOOKED at them, they
became a jigsaw-type puzzle I'd have to put together. After playing around
with it unsuccessfully a few times, it occurred to me that the FOSSIL might
be helpful. When I LOOKED at the FOSSIL again, I realized it was a map to
the placement of the LOOSE BONES -- but since the FOSSIL was dark and hard
to see, it was more of a suggestion of where they could go than an outright
solution. I discovered the way to assemble the LOOSE BONES by referring to
the FOSSIL. When you've got the turtle back together correctly, you'll see
it as a DEAD CREATURE instead of LOOSE BONES. I thought I could probably
use my LIFE CRYSTALS here, and in fact, I could. I USED the GLOWING
CRYSTALS with the DEAD CREATURE, but the monster just picked up the poor
creature and spat it out again. Since Boston remarked that the monster
still seemed hungry, I figured I could get it to eat the turtle again --
but I also knew I'd have to do something else to the DEAD CREATURE first or
I'd just get the same result again. The next time I put the LOOSE BONES
together into a DEAD CREATURE, I got lucky because I USED the CANISTER with
the DEAD CREATURE. This turned out to be the solution -- I was supposed to
get rid of the sea monster by using an "alien explosive device." I then
used the GLOWING CRYSTALS on the DEAD CREATURE and the next time the
monster grabbed it, everything went "boom" just like Boston had said at the
end of the museum DISPLAY about the CANISTER. I then LOOKED at the WATER
and Boston went for a little swim. NOTE: If I had only EXAMINED the WATER,
as I did much later when I got stuck again and was looking for things to
do, I would have learned that there was a cave down there -- and this would
have been my second clue that I needed to get rid of the monster to make
the water safe for swimming. Then I might have known that I should have
USED the CANISTER with the DEAD CREATURE instead of merely guessing. <SIGH>
In any event, Boston swam to the cave, and inside a CHAMBER there I found
another PLATE and an ORANGE ENGRAVED ROD. I EXAMINED both. Now I knew that
I was halfway to finishing with the ALCOVE and could open another of the
SEALED DOORS with PANELS in the NEXUS! I found nothing else to look at in
the cave, so I decided to CALL ROBBINS on the PENULTIMATE. The only new
thing she had to say was to agree with me that the life crystals might be
having adverse effects on Brink -- that they might be addictive and have
side effects. I still had one obvious thing to figure out on the MUSEUM
SPIRE -- the STRANGE DEVICE. My plan: to try out the STRANGE DEVICE again,
then show Maggie the new objects I'd found (which I'd neglected to do
before when I ran into her in the LIBRARY), then head back to the NEXUS,
place the PLATE, and finally, open up two more doors with the RED ENGRAVED
ROD and the ORANGE ENGRAVED ROD. I went back to the CAVERN and through the
WATER the way I had come, then to the PATH and UP to the STRANGE DEVICE. I
EXAMINED it and learned that it was the control panel for a light bridge. I
still couldn't figure out how to make it work, so I went back to the MUSEUM
and watched the DISPLAY above the DOOR a few more times (this is where I
decided that the DISPLAY must be a clue to operating the STRANGE DEVICE). I
thought that I could tell from the DISPLAY that the crystal that lit up
when I pushed the SWITCH was supposed to be glowing somehow, and that this
might have something to do with the pentagonal shape to the right. I went
back to the STRANGE DEVICE, fiddled with it for awhile, and found that I
would hear tones when I changed the position of the LENS then used the
SWITCH. Two of the tones were the same and one was different. So I adjusted
the LENS for the different tone and PUSHED the SWITCH. I held the SWITCH
down until the crystal above it glowed as in the MUSEUM DISPLAY. As I was
doing this, I noticed a line forming on the pentagonal shape to the right.
So I held the SWITCH down until the line completed forming. When EXITED
that screen and next LOOKED at my surroundings, I found a BRIGHT LIGHT that
I could walk on. It took me to a map screen of the island surrounded by
spires. I could walk to a CRYSTAL FORM, so I did. I EXAMINED the CRYSTAL
FORM and learned that it was so transparent as to be almost invisible.
Since I couldn't find anything else to do here, I went OUT and back to the
MUSEUM SPIRE. NOTE on light bridges: You'll find that you encounter a
number of STRANGE DEVICES with LENSES and PANELS, one on each spire that
you travel to through a door with a PANEL from the NEXUS. (The spire you
reach through the ALCOVE door also has a STRANGE DEVICE with a LENS but no
PANEL.) The last STRANGE DEVICE that I reached from one of the SEALED DOORS
with PANELS in the NEXUS and attempted to operate (on the TOMB SPIRE as
discussed below) wouldn't work until I solved another puzzle first. For
other people, this puzzle occurred on the MAP SPIRE, and in replaying, I
decided to test the hypothesis that the last STRANGE DEVICE you try to
operate (apart from the one you reach through the SEALED DOOR with the
ALCOVE) generates this puzzle. I had a saved game with no light bridges
operational, and since I knew I'd encountered this puzzle on the TOMB SPIRE
and others had on the MAP SPIRE (as I learned from messages on the board in
GAMERS), I activated these two light bridges first, then saved. Then I
tried the MUSEUM SPIRE's light bridge. No puzzle showed up. But one did
when I then went to the UNNAMED (PLANETARIUM) SPIRE. Starting from the same
save, I went to the PLANETARIUM SPIRE first the next time. The puzzle
appeared in the PANEL in the STRANGE DEVICE here, even though I hadn't yet
been to the MUSEUM SPIRE. From this experiment, I conclude that the
appearance of the puzzle is indeed random (although it might be limited to
one of the last two light bridges you activate) -- but in my game it
appeared on the TOMB SPIRE so that's the section of this walkthru where
I'll address it. I went through the DOOR and into the LIBRARY where I
SHOWED ROBBINS all the items I'd found since I'd gone below the planet's
surface. She agreed that the RED ENGRAVED ROD probably also worked on a
lock. When I TALKED to her, I could now discuss the STRANGE DEVICE with
her. After an initial discussion about the light bridges, this option just
led to Boston and Maggie making "light" jokes at each other. It seemed an
endless and unproductive exchange, so I didn't bother trying to exhaust
this conversation option. Since I felt like I'd pretty much exhausted what
I could do on the MUSEUM SPIRE for now, I decided to go back to the NEXUS
and do what I could there with my PLATE and two new ENGRAVED RODS. I
BOARDED the TRAM and spun off. (I figure that by now you can find your own
way back to the TRAM, no?) BACK AT THE NEXUS First, I decided to unload the
PLATE I was carrying, so I went up to the ALCOVE and PLACED the PLATE in
the TOP. It fit perfectly (surprise... NOT)! Then I walked left and tried
using the combination on the ORANGE ENGRAVED ROD on the first PANEL next to
a SEALED DOOR that I came to. This turned out to be a good choice, and
after plugging in its sequence (again from left to right) on the BUTTONS,
the SEALED DOOR opened. Just since I _could_, I decided to open a third
door before moving on. I continued left past the MUSEUM TRAM door to the
next SEALED DOOR with a PANEL. No success here -- but as expected, the RED
ENGRAVED ROD _did_ open the next SEALED DOOR to the left when I plugged its
combination into the BUTTONS on the PANEL. Now I had two options.
Comforting. But I had a couple of things I wanted to try before continuing
my explorations. As it turned out, none of them were necessary, but I found
them somewhat entertaining. I went back out into the CANYON and LOOKED at
the SKY. As I'd suspected, I could now see the LIGHT BRIDGE I'd just
activated on the MUSEUM SPIRE connecting to the GLOWING SPHERE. I expected
that something similar would have to happen in each of the places I had yet
to visit. The potential symmetry here pretty much hit me over the head.
Through the CLEARING, I went to the GRAVE. I just had to see what would
happen if I USED a GLOWING CRYSTAL on the BONES there. At first it looked
like it might actually work, but my excitement was short lived -- too many
bones were missing to bring the animal back to life. I also tried a GLOWING
CRYSTAL on the TUSK and the JAWBONE I was carrying. It made the TUSK
slightly warm and the JAWBONE twitch, but nothing else happened. I couldn't
put the TUSK or the JAWBONE back to complete the BONES, or use them with
each other, so I figured this was a dead end. I went back to the NEXUS to
explore behind the doors I'd just opened. (I figure you can find you own
way back to the NEXUS by now, no?)

ON THE AS YET UNNAMED (AKA PLANETARIUM) SPIRE

WITH A SHORT DETOUR I ENTERED the first now-opened door to the left when I
got back to the NEXUS, where I found a similar platform and TRAM CALL to
the ones I'd found past the door to the MUSEUM TRAM. I BOARDED a waiting
TRAM and took a ride through another crystalline tube. When I disembarked,
I was in an area with a TRAM CALL and an opening to the OUTSIDE. I went
through the OPENING and arrived at a pathway along some cliffs with a
raging ocean to the right of the screen. I went UP the pathway to a gorge,
with a BOULDER on the FAR SIDE. The BOULDER looked like the perfect bridge
over the gorge if only I could move it. But I couldn't reach it, and none
of my items worked with it. So I held my breath and prepared to try to JUMP
to the FAR SIDE. The first time I tried this, I hit the timing wrong.
Boston ended up in the water, swam back to the beginning of the pathway
right at the outside of the TRAM platform, then climbed up the cliff to
where he'd been before completing his trek up to the gorge. Thinking that
this had to be the wrong approach, I went back to the NEXUS on the TRAM to
try the third door I had opened. I didn't have much more luck with this
bright idea, because the TRAM CALL on the platform I reached through the
third door was broken. No TRAM came when I PUSHED the TRAM CALL and Boston
observed that there ought to be a control somewhere. I knew from this
statement that I'd have to fix the TRAM CALL somehow. I couldn't find a
control on the platform, so I thought about where it might possibly be. It
came to me that the CRYSTALS I'd seen through the AIRLOCK bore a striking
resemblance to the overhead map of the five spires and central island I'd
seen when I hiked across the light bridge. Since one of the CRYSTALS was
dark and lifeless, and I'd thought from the first time I saw it that I'd
need to replace it or something of that nature, I made the working
hypothesis that the CRYSTALS were the control and that when I was able to
fix the dark CRYSTAL, the TRAM would come. I went back down the DARK TUNNEL
and through the AIRLOCK, but again, none of my items would work with the
CRYSTALS, the CRYSTAL CLUSTER or the HOLES in the GLOWING PANEL. Before
leaving through the AIRLOCK again, I decided to EXAMINE the GLOWING PANEL
just for laughs. Boston confirmed my suspicions that it was indeed a
control panel, albeit inoperative. I wandered around a bit aimlessly here,
not sure what to do. I revisited all of the places I'd been, looking for
something else to solve. Since I had no luck at all, and since I knew there
had to be something waiting for me on the FAR SIDE as well as a way to get
there, I eventually wandered back through the second door I'd opened, took
the TRAM again, and journeyed back UP the coastline I'd visited before. I
stood on the edge of the gorge and noticed that the water came up at fairly
regular intervals -- so I decided to try to time my jump when the water was
high enough that I might be able to float across somehow. This second time
I tried JUMPING to the FAR SIDE, Boston cruised across on a wave like he
did that sort of thing every day of his life. (Too bad he hadn't done it
before or I'd have saved myself an hour of wandering around looking for
something else to do <GRIN>). On this side, I could reach the BOULDER
unhindered. I LOOKED at it and found that it was loose, so I gave it a
SHOVE with my SHOVEL (nothing like a double meaning) and it fell over into
the handy bridge across the gorge I knew it was meant to be. At least now I
could get back down to the TRAM when I wanted to. Continuing UP, I came to
an area with another LENS and STRANGE DEVICE with a PANEL in it, as well as
a PLATEAU, and, past a waterfall, a CREVICE. Since I'd scrolled across the
screen to LOOK at the CREVICE, I went in there first. Here I found a BLUE
ROD that I TOOK and also EXAMINED. I knew at once from its shape and color
that this was just the thing for those HOLES back at the GLOWING PANEL in
the AIRLOCK. I'd been looking for something shaped like this ever since I'd
first seen those HOLES (ok, you sickos out there, get your minds out of the
gutter... so mine can float by). The CREVICE wasn't much help though,
because Boston wouldn't reach into it. I tried a few of my items, including
the SHOVEL on it, without success. Since I couldn't find anything else to
do in the CREVICE at the moment, I went OUTSIDE to inspect the PLATEAU. A
door shut as I approached, and Boston said that the little rat-like beast
that scurried away when the door slammed had stolen something he was sure
to want later. I took a few steps to the right and saw two large wheels
with a HOLE in the center of the closest one, and a POLE lying on the
ground next to it. I TOOK a ROD that was propped against a rock, then
noticed a CAVE in the rock face behind the wheels. Boston complained about
how small the opening to the CAVE was, so I decided to try ENLARGING it
with the SHOVEL. After all, this had worked with what had turned out to be
the opening to the NEXUS. When I used the SHOVEL with the CAVE, Boston dug
until the opening was big enough to squeeze through. Inside the CAVE I
found nothing but three CRITTER HOLES, none of which held anything of
interest for me, at least for now. So I went back through the OPENING and
farther to the right of my screen. I TOOK a RIB CAGE that was lying on the
ground and a COVER that appeared to belong over the PANEL next to the DOOR
here. The PANEL was missing a part, presumably the one the critter had
taken just when I approached, so Boston told me he thought it wouldn't make
any sense to put the COVER on the PANEL when I tried to do that. I also
TOOK a short, metal DOWEL that was lying in front of the DOOR. The DOOR
itself seemed shut tight when I LOOKED at it. A number of HOLES lined the
wall next to the PANEL. I LOOKED at each one and saw a lot of useless junk
the critter had been collecting. I also noticed that LOOKING in one of
these HOLES prompted the critter to come out, have a look around, and
scurry away. I LOOKED at the POLE again. I couldn't TAKE it, but when I
LOOKED at it, Boston moved it. This suggested that it should go somewhere
on this screen, but maybe I'd have to do something else first. I opened up
my inventory and looked at all the things I'd just picked up. The DOWEL
seemed the right shape for the HOLE in the wheel, so I USED it there. A-ha!
Now I had PIN in the center of the wheel. I LOOKED at the POLE again and
tried USING it with the PIN. Cool. Now I had a HOOK. At this point it was
fairly clear to me that I had to build something here, but I wasn't sure
just what yet. In my bizarre mind, I saw a connection between the RIB CAGE
and the HOOK (meat hook? who knows?) so I USED them together and ended up
with a CAGE. Now I got the gist. I was setting a trap for the critter so I
could get the missing door part from it. Since I'd played MONKEY ISLAND II:
LECHUCK'S REVENGE many moons ago, I was somewhat familiar with the
LucasArts theory of trap building; I'd done something similar in that game.
(hercules told me later that he made an association here too, with INDIANA
JONES AND THE FATE OF ATLANTIS where a rib cage had been used as a trap
also.) I knew I'd need to set the trap somehow, so that it would spring
shut. Something to prop up the CAGE with would work nicely. The ROD looked
like a good bet, so I USED it with the CAGE. Lo and behold, I now had a
TRAP! Of course, I didn't have any bait for the trap, but since Boston
volunteered to play sheepdog, that didn't seem necessary. I'd just have to
find the critter and herd it into the trap somehow. Finding the critter, as
it turned out, was the easy part. When I LOOKED at the HOLE closest to the
TRAP, the critter came out. But I couldn't seem to chase it into the TRAP.
It seemed to run upscreen each time I got it to come out of the HOLE, so
I'd try to get between it and the upscreen HOLES to block its way.
Sometimes it would just go right past me, other times it would run
downscreen and if I tried to get behind the TRAP (between the wheels) it
would run right past me again into the CAVE. I tried over and over again,
and I just couldn't get the thing into the TRAP. I felt a whine attack
coming on. It's one thing when I have no idea what to do. It's quite
another when I have an idea of what to do -- or even, as in this case --
know _exactly_ what to do but can't execute. That's when I really want to
tear my hair out, and when I'm most ready to ask for help. I'm always sure
it's a positional thing and it's the game's fault. It certainly couldn't be
mine. ;) I took a break to clear my head and went to GAMERS where, by some
stroke of fortune, I ran into herc just as I was ready to whine. He told me
a trick to getting the critter into the TRAP, which I pass along to you
now. I just replayed this part again and trapped him the very first time I
tried. It's a piece of cake if you follow what herc said: (1) click on the
HOLE to get the critter to come out, (2) ignore it and walk Boston directly
downscreen, (3) continue walking Boston to the left, toward the CLEARING,
but have him walk _in front of_ both the wheels instead of between them,
(4) walk Boston back toward the right _between_ the wheels. The little
critter will walk right into your TRAP. Poor thing. When the TRAP had
sprung, Boston wondered how he'd find the critter again when he let him
out. This told me that I'd need to track the critter. Remember the
BRACELET? I'd thought I'd need to use it to be able to find something
again, and this seemed just the right place. I USED the BRACELET with the
CRITTER, and it slipped around the critter's neck. Then I OPENED up the
TRAP and let the critter out. I kept the RIB CAGE and the ROD since I could
TAKE them again, but I couldn't TAKE the HOOK or the PIN, so I left them
alone and went off looking for the critter. I'd seen him head for the CAVE,
so I decided to start there. Once in the CAVE, I USED the DEVICE, and it
helped me to locate a TRACKER SPOT, under which Boston reasoned the critter
must be located. I USED the SHOVEL with the TRACKER SPOT. When I'd DUG up
the TRACKER SPOT, I found a MACHINE PART -- just the thing (hopefully) to
get that DOOR open. I went back to the DOOR and USED the MACHINE PART with
the PANEL, then the COVER with the PANEL. Now I could PUSH the PANEL, and
OPEN the DOOR. Through the DOOR I came to a peaceful blue room. Here I
found another PLATE (nice! only one more to go now) and a GREEN ENGRAVED
ROD (double nice! now I could open the last SEALED DOOR with a PANEL back
at the NEXUS). The rest of what I saw in this room completely baffled me.
First, the TWIN SCEPTERS. They sure looked like they belonged here somehow,
yet I could TAKE them. Was I supposed to? Usually, I figure if I can pick
it up, I should take it, but here I really wasn't sure. I bit the bullet
and TOOK them anyway. Boston said they seemed to have an electric charge.
Second, nothing happened when I PUSHED the BUTTON that I saw here. Nor
could I USE or do anything with the CRACK through which Boston could see
outside. Finally, the ceiling had a FAINT LIGHT on it. I couldn't learn
anything about the FAINT LIGHT by EXAMINING it, and it didn't occur to me
right then to try to USE anything with it. I felt out of ideas for now, and
I had a lot to try elsewhere. Aside from the STRANGE DEVICE outside, I now
had a PLATE to use in the ALCOVE, another ENGRAVED ROD to open another
SEALED DOOR, and a BLUE ROD that I had a good feeling would help me out
with the TRAM controls and let me explore the other area I hadn't been able
to get to yet. So, as usual, I decided to give my crew a BUZZ on the
PENULTIMATE before setting off on these new adventures. But Maggie had
nothing new to say, and Brink wasn't answering. I went back out to the
CLEARING and tried different positions for the LENS as I had with the one
on the MUSEUM SPIRE. When I found the different tone (by PUSHING the SWITCH
on the STRANGE DEVICE after setting the LENS to each possible position), I
PRESSED the SWITCH until the line formed on the screen just as before and
the STRANGE DEVICE had created a BRIGHT LIGHT. I decided to travel down
this light bridge, too, just to see what would happen. This time, when I
EXAMINED the CRYSTAL FORM, Boston told me it was hard to see anything, but
he thought he could make out some kind of shape. After learning this, I
went OUT, found my way back to the TRAM on the spire I'd just been to, and
returned to the NEXUS. ON THE MAP SPIRE Care to guess the first thing I did
when I got back to the NEXUS? Right. I DUMPED the PLATE in the LEFT slot in
the ALCOVE. After taking a walk out to the CANYON to INSPECT the SKY and
see my newest LIGHT BRIDGE from a different angle, I decided to try my BLUE
ROD on the GLOWING PANEL through the DARK TUNNEL and the AIRLOCK. As I'd
guessed, the BLUE ROD fit perfectly in the HOLE I USED it with (could have
been any of them -- it will go in any of the three HOLES). Much to my
surprise, this activated two other SLIDING CRYSTALS. I saved my game and
experimented for a bit with the SLIDING CRYSTALS, but I worried that I
didn't have the secret to them down yet and I didn't want to get stuck with
yet another deactivated TRAM. So I decided to move on to the other SEALED
DOOR with PANEL that I hadn't yet opened first. But I did notice in messing
around with the GLOWING PANEL that clicking on the bright CRYSTALS would
make them go dark, and that if I moved the SLIDING CRYSTALS around, I could
get the last dark CRYSTAL I'd clicked on to brighten back up eventually.
Once back through the DARK TUNNEL, I headed for the SEALED DOOR I hadn't
yet OPENED. I SET the BUTTONS on its PANEL to those shown on the GREEN
ENGRAVED ROD from left to right, and the door OPENED. Through this door, I
came upon another platform with a TRAM CALL. The TRAM came when I PUSHED
the TRAM CALL and I rode it through yet another crystalline tube. I arrived
at an unusual place with another TRAM CALL and a LEDGE. I couldn't even see
Boston behind the TRAM here -- I had to find the LEDGE by feel. Out on the
LEDGE, I saw an OPENING upscreen that I went through. The only thing to see
here was a STRANGE FIELD of light that was "just on the edge of existence."
I couldn't do anything with it, so I moved on. I left the OPENING and went
next to a CAVERN. Inside I had the options to explore a PIT or a NEST. I
went for the PIT first. I passed through into a cave with no new hotspots
except an OPENING on the other side, so I headed for that. Now I was in a
vine-covered atrium with a stream running through it and a PANEL. When I
LOOKED at the PANEL, I saw a set of BUTTONS just like the ones on the
PANELS of the SEALED DOORS in the NEXUS. Did I need another ENGRAVED ROD
here? Hmm. Confusion. Yeah, that was a good word for it. I EXITED the
screen without doing anything for now. I located another OPENING in this
area and went through it. There, on the side of a cliff, I found another
STRANGE DEVICE, with a corresponding LENS and PANEL on its side. By now I
was a pro at these, so I ADJUSTED the LENS until I heard a different tone
when I PRESSED the SWITCH on the STRANGE DEVICE, then held down the SWITCH
until the line drew across the screen to the right. When that was done, I
had a BRIGHT LIGHT coming from this STRANGE DEVICE. I ventured out onto the
light bridge and headed again for the CRYSTAL FORM. This time it looked a
lot different, but when I EXAMINED it I still had a hard time seeing inside
it although I could make out some sort of shape. I went OUT and back to the
MAP SPIRE. MAP SPIRE? What was _that_ all about? Obviously, I didn't know
all there was to know about this place yet. But it started to make sense
when I got off of the light bridge and decided to go back to EXPLORE the
other place I hadn't been to, the NEST. When I LOOKED for the way out of
the STRANGE DEVICE area, my only option was called "MAP ROOM." This took me
back to the room with the PANEL that I'd wondered if I needed another
ENGRAVED ROD for. Maybe not. I saw no doors anywhere that appeared to need
opening. So maybe, just maybe, I was supposed to plug in all the
combinations from the ENGRAVED RODS that I already had. I decided to give
it a try. When I did, I found that the PANEL generated pictures off to the
side, of a site in each of the spires I had visited (or in the case of the
RED ENGRAVED ROD, a spire I hadn't yet visited -- must have been the one
with the broken TRAM CALL). Now I understood why this room was called the
MAP ROOM. Interestingly, when I plugged in the code for the RED ENGRAVED
ROD, Boston saw a crypt somewhere -- with a way below it. NOTE: It appears
that viewing the crypt in the MAP ROOM as just described can save you a lot
of trouble later. The game apparently will not let you down into the crypt
after you've found it and set it up (described below) unless you have
reason to believe there is something down there -- which you learn from the
map. I believe that looking at the map once is sufficient to avoid getting
stuck later at the crypt, but as noted below, I looked at it twice. So if
you aren't able to get into the crypt after doing everything set forth
below to set it up, try looking at this map again. After plugging in all
the combinations, I decided to go see what was in the NEST. I went back to
the PIT through a CHAMBER and into the NEST, where I saw a spidery-looking
creature crawling away to the top left of my screen. In the NEST, I found a
GRATE sealing something off, but I wasn't sure what to do with it (and
couldn't seem to do anything with it -- yet). Here I fell down on my
exploring technique. I didn't realize until later that there was another
way out of the NEST to the right of the screen. I'll relate the somewhat
embarrassing story of how I found this out shortly. For now, I couldn't
find anything else to do here, so I decided to give ROBBINS another RING on
the PENULTIMATE. I now had the option to talk to her about the OPENING to
the crypt I'd seen on the map. She reasoned that if the map showed secret
rooms under the crypt, they weren't meant to be secret. Boston agreed --
there must be a way to access them. Brink was still out of commission.
Since I thought (incorrectly) I'd seen all there was to see on this spire
now, I decided to go back to the NEXUS and venture through the door with
the broken TRAM. So I left the NEST, went out over the LEDGE to the TRAM,
and back to the NEXUS.

ON THE TOMB SPIRE, PART 1

I'd have to go back through the AIRLOCK to give the GLOWING PANEL another
try and light up the last CRYSTAL if my theory that this was the way to fix
the TRAM was right. Since I now had all the light bridges up on the other
spires I'd been to, I wasn't all that concerned for the immediate future
about accidentally rendering the other TRAMS inoperative. I figured that
there had to be another light bridge on the spire I was about to go to, and
if worse came to worst, I could just use this TRAM to get between the NEXUS
and that spire, then take the light bridges from there to wherever else I
might want to go. Of course, that wouldn't help me if and when I got the
ALCOVE door open, but I'd worry about that later. I SELECTED the dark
CRYSTAL and moved the SLIDING CRYSTALS until it lit up. I noticed that the
end of the dark CRYSTAL got lighter or darker grey depending on how I moved
the SLIDING CRYSTALS, but it wasn't until I talked to herc later about
these controls that I realized that these were the meters by which you can
tell if you're getting closer or farther away from the correct SLIDING
CRYSTAL settings. The end of the CRYSTAL you select to work on will become
lighter grey the closer you get to the correct settings, and darker grey
the farther away you get. As the end of the CRYSTAL grows brighter and
brighter, it will eventually light up completely once you get the settings
exactly right. Now that all the CRYSTALS were bright, I EXITED that screen,
then watched through the WINDOW as the previously inoperative TRAM rolled
through a tube and into the station. I went back through the AIRLOCK and
the DARK TUNNEL to the NEXUS and went through the fourth open door. Not
surprisingly, when I USED the TRAM CALL here, the TRAM now arrived to my
left. I GOT ON the TRAM and rolled away to my newest destination. I arrived
at a SPIRE with an outdoor platform at which there was another TRAM CALL. I
walked toward the SPIRE and continued up to a PLATEAU. Along the PATH, I
found a STONE PLATE that was half buried. Boston couldn't move it using his
bare hands, which signalled to me that I should try USING the SHOVEL with
the STONE PLATE. Doing so revealed a HOLE. The HOLE led to something that
could have been a burial chamber, according to Boston (this was the same
thing he'd said on looking at one of the DISPLAYS in the MUSEUM). Inside,
on the wall, I saw a roughly carved HOLE. Boston wondered at its purpose.
The ceiling had a SHUTTER on it, and when I EXAMINED the SHUTTER, Boston
noticed that there was light seeping through it from outside. He expressed
his wish to be able to see better. I walked around in here for a bit and
discovered that when I walked across a stone in the foreground with two
crescent shapes on it, the SHUTTER OPENED. As long as I stood on the LOOSE
STONE, the SHUTTER stayed open. When I stepped off of it, the SHUTTER
closed. I knew I had found a puzzle that would end up opening the TOMB, but
I decided to explore the rest of the TOMB SPIRE before focusing on this
puzzle. Further along the PATH, I came to another STRANGE DEVICE with a
PANEL and a LENS. I assumed it would work just as the others had. But no.
As I found out through trying and trying to get the line to go across the
screen to the right of the STRANGE DEVICE controls as it had on all the
others, the controls on this one were broken and had to be fixed first by
doing something inside the PANEL. I opened the PANEL and found the
(apparently randomly appearing) puzzle I mentioned earlier. It consisted of
a number of PRISMS and GREEN, RED and BLUE gems, with a light emanating
from the SOURCE in the center. I played around with the puzzle for awhile
and figured out that the goal was to MOVE the SOURCE and the PRISMS until
the light bounced off of all the prisms and gems in a continual line, so
that all were touched by the light and no stray beams went off into
nothingness. But it seemed that this might take some concentration to
finish, so I decided to continue exploring the spire and come back to this
puzzle. I saw an ENGRAVING on the stone face across from the STRANGE
DEVICE. LOOKING at the ENGRAVING showed the same crescent shapes I'd seen
on the LOOSE STONE in the TOMB, as well as a sort of dial that reminded me
of clock hands. I was beginning to firm up in my mind what I thought the
trick to opening up the TOMB might be. I was pretty sure that an eclipse of
the sort shown at the museum DISPLAY, with a larger moon being eclipsed by
a smaller one, had to happen. It seemed to me that the light from this
eclipse would then somehow shine down through the SHUTTER into the tomb and
activate a mechanism there. At least, that's sort of how it had worked for
Indiana Jones in one of his movies, except that in his case it was sunlight
and he had to use a staff with an amulet on the end of it to focus the
light. Still, the connection was strong enough in my mind to convince me
this was the basic idea behind that particular puzzle. I moved on to the
right to a CAVE INTERIOR. I saw some BAT CREATURES here, but they were up
on the ceiling and -- silly me -- I didn't think I had anything that would
"reach clear up there." At least it wasn't the SHOVEL, the TUSK, any of my
ENGRAVED RODS or the regular ROD. I found Brink on a PLATFORM, and he told
me he was busy and didn't have time for me. He was working on a RELIC,
which I LOOKED at and found to be badly deteriorated machinery. To the
left, it was a long way DOWN the cliff. I tried talking to BRINK, but when
he _would_ talk to me about anything he spoke in a very nasty manner to me.
So I decided to focus on the puzzle at the STRANGE DEVICE for now. I
fiddled with the puzzle at the STRANGE DEVICE a little longer. But then,
since it was about 10:00 p.m. and I'd been playing for most of the day, I
thought I'd take a little rest. I logged on to GAMERS and hung out there
for awhile. MORGIE LEARNS TOO MUCH <SIGH> After a bit, hercules showed up
and asked me how I was doing with THE DIG. I learned that he was still
ahead of me in the game even though I'd been playing all day long. But not
by much -- I was closing in on him. I mentioned that I was now working on
the puzzle at the STRANGE DEVICE, which he told me he had finished. I
related where I'd been and what I'd done. Here's where it gets dangerous to
talk to someone else who is ahead of you in a game. herc told me that he
was also on the TOMB SPIRE and that he'd just discovered that if he USED
his FLASHLIGHT with the BAT CREATURES, they'd fly around. Neither of us
knew it at the time, but this turned out to be the answer to a puzzle that
we'd encounter later. We thought it was just another interactive feature
like the GLOWING PLANTS in the NEXUS. No one's fault, but Morgie now knew
exactly what to do when she encountered that puzzle later on. I mentioned
what I'd done on the MAP SPIRE and herc, I'm sure unintentionally, said,
"Wait... what about the falls?" "What falls?" I asked. This was how I found
out that I'd skipped a part on the MAP SPIRE; that there was another way
out of the NEST to the right of the screen. Oh well, I'd better go back
there and check it out. (Grrrr... wish I hadn't known.) At least I didn't
feel like a total disaster because earlier he'd missed the BRACELET and I'd
told him how to find it. <GRIN> I told herc that his suggestions for
getting the critter into the TRAP had worked like a charm. "Did you take
the ROD and the RIB CAGE again?" I asked. "Yes," he said, then went on to
tell me that if I'd taken the ROD I'd be "ok." Great. Now, although I
didn't want to, I knew the ROD would be important in a part of the game
herc had already played. I decided I'd better log off before I learned any
more than I had already. So I made some excuse about having to polish my
silverware and went back to the game, hoping that I'd have a brain blip and
forget all I'd just learned. It didn't happen.

ON THE TOMB SPIRE, PART 2 -- AND TYING UP SOME LOOSE ENDS

I started again at my save on the TOMB SPIRE to work on fixing the controls
inside the PANEL on the STRANGE DEVICE. As soon as I had arranged the
SOURCE and the PRISMS so that I had a continuous beam of light touching all
of them, as well as the RED, GREEN, and BLUE gems, with the red tinted beam
directed to the RED gem, the green tinted beam directed to the GREEN gem,
and the blue tinted beam directed to the BLUE gem, and no stray beams going
off the edge of the puzzle, I left that screen automatically and the
controls were fixed. Now I could SET the LENS and USE the SWITCH on the
STRANGE DEVICE just as I had done with the other three, discussed above.

NOTE: Initially, I didn't see the connection between the colored beams of
light and the colored gems. I just got it to work without paying attention
to the colors. I happened to read a message on the board from Dave Timoney
that suggested that the colors had to be matched as well. But I felt sure
that the colored beams only took on their color from the gems they hit
since I hadn't noticed this before.

When I went back and tried this puzzle again, I found that Dave was
absolutely right. If you connect up all the prisms, gems and the source but
don't match up the colors, the game won't exit the screen automatically and
your device isn't fixed properly. Thanks Dave! This time when I crossed the
BRIGHT LIGHT to the CRYSTAL FORM, it looked very different. When I EXAMINED
it, I could see a door, but couldn't touch it. Since I now knew I'd missed
something on the MAP SPIRE (ugh!) I decided to go back there and clean up
my mess. I CROSSED over the LIGHT BRIDGE system to the MAP SPIRE and found
my way back to the NEST. This time, I clicked the cursor on the right of
the screen past the GRATE and Boston walked farther to the right. Sure
enough, to the far right I saw another DOOR. It led to an open area with
pathways to a FALLS SOURCE and a BEACH. I went to the FALLS SOURCE first.
Up here, I found another GRATE. When I LOOKED at it, Boston walked across a
rock that redirected the water through the GRATE. It seemed reasonable to
assume that this GRATE was connected to the one in the NEST somehow. But I
couldn't do anything else here for now, so I left to go DOWN to the BEACH.
When Boston moved off the rock, the water returned to its normal course. I
found nothing to see or do on the BEACH for now. So I returned back the way
I had come, through the NEST, the PIT, and into the MAP ROOM. Here I
decided to take another look at the map of the TOMB SPIRE before returning
there. I plugged the combination on the RED ENGRAVED ROD into the PANEL
again. Boston exclaimed that there was more to the crypt than he'd thought.
I then went back across the LIGHT BRIDGE to the TOMB SPIRE to start to work
on solving the crypt puzzle. Once back in the TOMB, I thought some more
about my previous theory, as well as what I'd seen on the map of the TOMB.
The map had showed bright light shining all through the TOMB, so I figured
I should try to get some light in there. Maybe if I could find a way to
keep the SHUTTER open, that would help. I decided to try to prop the LOOSE
STONE with something so that it would stay open. I stood on the LOOSE STONE
and USED the ROD with it. This held down the stone, and the SHUTTER
remained open when I stepped off of the LOOSE STONE. (Now I had more of an
idea of where herc was in the game after I'd last talked to him.) But this
didn't solve my light problem. What if I could FORCE the FLASHLIGHT into
the HOLE? It didn't work, but I did learn that there was some "energy
substance" inside the HOLE. I needed something to put in there, something
that perhaps gave off light. The GOLD SCEPTER and SILVER SCEPTER I had,
although they gave off energy, didn't work. Then, in a flash (no pun
intended), I realized that I'd need to use that BLUE CRYSTAL that provided
light to the power room in the NEXUS. So I went back to the TRAM and
returned to the NEXUS to TAKE it again, then rode the TRAM back to the TOMB
SPIRE and went back into the TOMB. Here, I USED the BLUE CRYSTAL with the
HOLE, and now I had all the light in there that I could possibly want. But
something was still missing. I decided to go OUTSIDE to see whether I could
come up with any ideas about the eclipse I thought should happen, but so
far hadn't. Outside the TOMB, I noticed some DIRT I hadn't seen before. I
LOOKED at the DIRT and Boston cleared it away. Underneath, he found a LENS.
When I next went back into the TOMB, I could now see a beam of light coming
down through the SHUTTER. I felt I was close to the answer, but something
was still eluding me. Thus began one of those frustrating forays into
stuckness. I USED the FLASHLIGHT with the BAT CREATURES and watched them
fly around like herc told me they would, just to have something to do. I
went back to all the places I'd been, tried whatever I could think of. I
stared at the SKY from the DAIS for awhile, waiting for an eclipse. Maybe
what I was missing was some information on when it would happen? But where
would I find something like _that_? The LIBRARY and the MUSEUM, the obvious
places, didn't shed any light on this. And my crew was no help. By process
of elimination, I finally decided to focus on the areas where I hadn't yet
been able to do much of anything. The MAP SPIRE had a few of these -- so
did the UNNAMED SPIRE. Since I had no clue what to do, I was going to have
to use trial and error here. I'd have to use every item I had on every
hotspot I could find in these places. If that didn't work, I was really in
trouble. Eventually, however, this method paid off. In the blue room on the
nameless spire where I'd found the scepters that looked so much like they
belonged there that I had debated whether to take them, I finally USED the
GOLD SCEPTER with the FAINT LIGHT. How I was supposed to know to do this, I
still have no clue, but amazingly, this activated a MOON MAP that showed a
planet (maybe this one) and its moons. The close-up screen showed a PLANET,
a LARGE MOON, and a SMALL MOON, as well as the CEILING of the "dome." (If
it had actually been shaped like a dome, or maybe had some seats for
spectators, then I could understand why I'd be expected to figure out that
it was a planetarium. Being able to recognize an alien planetarium, much
less one that is has to be "turned on" first, is, it seems to me, a bit
much to expect from the player.) I learned through experimentation that the
GOLD SCEPTER moved both moons around the planet, while the SILVER SCEPTER
moved the SMALL MOON around the LARGE MOON. So maybe I had to recreate the
eclipse Boston had seen in the museum DISPLAY? If so, I would need to
position the moons so that someone looking up from the planet would see the
SMALL MOON eclipsing the LARGE MOON. The PLANET seemed to have light
falling on it to its right side. So I decided to MOVE the moons into the
center of this light with the GOLD SCEPTER. That way, the reflection of
light from the planet would hit the moons and enable someone standing on
the planet to see them (I hoped). Then I USED the SILVER SCEPTER to line up
the SMALL MOON between the PLANET and the LARGE MOON. After finessing the
positioning slightly, I automatically exited the screen and saw that I'd
caused an eclipse, which in turn had sent light through the LENS I'd
uncovered and into the TOMB. A STATUE had risen out of the crypt.
Unfortunately, right after that happened and I was psyched to run back over
to the TOMB, the critter stole the door part again and locked Boston in the
PLANETARIUM. IN THE CRYPT First, I tried calling for help. But I could get
nothing but static on the PENULTIMATE. So I PUSHED the BUTTON next to the
DOOR. How simple. The controls still worked from the inside, and Boston was
free again. Now the obvious thing to do was to see if I could get into the
crypt. I went out to the CLEARING and crossed the LIGHT BRIDGE to the TOMB
SPIRE, noting on my way that the previously unnamed spire was now called
the PLANETARIUM SPIRE. How fitting. I walked to the EDGE and over to the
TOMB. Boston wondered what caused the ECLIPSING MOONS to move out of their
synchronous orbit. Heh. Inside the TOMB I got a close-up view of the STATUE
I'd seen rising up during the cut-scene. When I LOOKED at it, Boston
TOUCHED it and it crumbled to dust. Now I could see a hotspot for CRYPT, so
I LOOKED at it. Boston got up on top of what turned out to be an elevator
of sorts, which took him down below the TOMB. After descending, it seemed
the only direction to go was left. When I'd gone left for a ways, Boston
ended up in front of a DOOR with a SLOT next to it, and two sets of BROKEN
BONES in front of it. When I LOOKED at the DOOR, a LIFE CRYSTAL fell out of
the SLOT and onto the right-hand side set of BROKEN BONES. This revived a
nasty-looking CREATURE that blocked the way to the DOOR. After thinking
about what I saw here, and what I had in my inventory, and (ok, I admit it)
trying a few items on the CREATURE without success, I decided that what we
might have here was a "make them fight each other" puzzle. I'd seen this
sort of puzzle in several adventure games I'd played before. If I could
revive the other BROKEN BONES, then maybe they'd fight, or at least
distract each other enough so that I could get to the DOOR. I USED the
GLOWING CRYSTALS with the BROKEN BONES, and as I watched, another CREATURE
rose up and then the two lunged at each other. They fell together, crushed
by a rock, until they were nothing but DEAD GUARDS. Just for fun, I tried
reviving the DEAD GUARDS with the GLOWING CRYSTALS. It didn't work. I
wondered also if they'd work with the RIB CAGE, but there wasn't enough
flesh left. Now I was free to get close to the DOOR and SLOT, so I EXAMINED
the DOOR and learned that there had to be a key for it. My ENGRAVED ROD
might work since I hadn't USED it yet. I USED the ENGRAVED ROD with the
SLOT and the DOOR evaporated. Boston remarked that this must have been
where the ghost at the WRECK wanted us to go all along. Through the DOOR,
at the end of a long WALKWAY, a PYRAMID rested. I went over to the PYRAMID
and LOOKED at it. Boston called Maggie at this point and told her of what
he found there -- a dead alien sealed inside the crystal pyramid. She was
close to translating the language of the planet, but didn't seem too keen
on my attempting to get into the pyramid and to the alien somehow. When we
finished talking, I LOOKED at the ALIEN CORPSE, the remains of a huge
creature. Perhaps I could bring it alive with the GLOWING CRYSTALS if I
could OPEN the PYRAMID. I decided to try the ENGRAVED ROD with the PANEL on
the PYRAMID, in case it was the key to both crypt locks. When I USED the
ENGRAVED ROD with the PANEL, the PYRAMID dissolved. So I USED the GLOWING
CRYSTALS with the ALIEN CORPSE and woke up the dead alien. It spoke to me,
but I couldn't understand a word it said. I had a lot of conversation
options to use here, but everything I asked, not surprisingly, prompted the
creature to respond in its own language. We just weren't understanding each
other. This was like living in a Led Zeppelin song: one huge communication
breakdown. Wouldn't it be fortuitous if Maggie had made her major
breakthrough in the language translation right about now? Finding nothing I
could connect with the creature on, I decided to give it a shot and give
her a call. When I stopped talking to the alien, the PYRAMID reconstructed
and the alien fell dead again. Boston was thinking along the same lines I
was, apparently, because as soon as the alien fell dead, he called Maggie.
She had, as it turned out, just discovered how to interpret the language --
but as she was trying to explain to Boston what she'd learned, a vile
creature attacked her and Boston lost communication with her. Brink
wouldn't answer Boston's desperate plea on the PENULTIMATE.

SAVING MAGGIE -- Morgie's Day 2

I knew my first priority now had to be to find and save Maggie, since she
was my only hope to be able to understand the alien. The creature that had
attacked Maggie appeared to be some form of spider. Since I'd seen a
spider-like creature in the NEST on the MAP SPIRE the first time I went
there, I figured it was a good bet that if Maggie wasn't still in the
LIBRARY, she'd been dragged off to the NEST. NOTE: From now on, I'm going
to assume that you're familiar enough with your surroundings to find your
way from place to place. So my directions throughout the rest of this
walkthru will be minimal. I went out of the CRYPT and across the LIGHT
BRIDGES to the MUSEUM SPIRE to check the LIBRARY first. Maggie was gone. So
I ran across the LIGHT BRIDGES again to the MAP SPIRE and went directly to
the NEST. Here I found Maggie, trapped in a web of sorts, with the hideous
creature preparing to make a meal out of her. A lightbulb went on over my
head. If I could get up to the FALLS SOURCE and run the water through the
GRATE there, then perhaps I could get it to come through the GRATE in the
NEST and wash away this giant bug. But when I tried that, the MONSTER
blocked my path. Maybe a little snack would appease it so that it would let
me pass. I tried FEEDING it items from my inventory, but I learned quickly
that this wasn't the right approach. I decided to TALK to ROBBINS to see
whether she had any ideas. She suggested I go find Brink because it might
take both of us to free her. But, understandably under the circumstances,
she didn't want to talk about anything else except finding a way out of her
predicament. Nothing else I tried here worked, so I decided to take her
advice. But first, it was time to sleep. It was almost 4:00 a.m. on a
Saturday night and although I hated to leave Maggie in the lurch like that,
I just couldn't keep my eyes open one second longer. So I went to sleep,
knowing I had something definite to try when I attacked the game again the
following day.

SAVING MAGGIE -- Morgie's Day 3

When I left to go get Brink, Maggie called after me to bring help. Geez.
Ok, ok -- have a little patience, will ya? I went back across the LIGHT
BRIDGES to the TOMB SPIRE where I'd last seen Brink. He was still on the
PLATFORM, but this time I could see him from the CAVE INTERIOR. I went out
to the PLATFORM to ask him for help, but he wasn't willing to help me and
kept telling me to go away. By now, the RELIC had turned into a contraption
of some sort. I tried talking to Brink through all the conversation
options. He was still unwilling to help me, but not at all unwilling to go
on and on about how great the life crystals were and how important his work
on that confounded RELIC was. I then noticed that Brink had started
collecting a CRYSTAL STASH. When I LOOKED at it, he got very testy with me.
I got the idea that if I could only get a hold of that CRYSTAL STASH, he'd
be putty in my hands. There was no question in my mind that I'd be able to
bribe him into helping me if I had his CRYSTAL STASH. I tried to TAKE the
CRYSTAL STASH again, but it was obvious that Brink wasn't going to let me
take it out from under his nose. I went back to the CAVERN, where I could
still see Brink out on the PLATFORM. I now knew immediately what to do,
thanks to herc's little slip before. I USED the FLASHLIGHT with the BAT
CREATURES and they flew down and chased Brink away from the PLATFORM. I ran
out to the PLATFORM and GRABBED the CRYSTAL STASH. As expected, Brink would
now follow me anywhere. Maybe he'd talk to me too? Nah. He didn't have
anything important to add to what he'd already told me. We went back across
the LIGHT BRIDGES to the NEST on the MAP SPIRE. I talked to Brink first
here to see if he had a plan. When I talked to him about the MONSTER, he
suggested that he'd distract the MONSTER while I figured out how to get
Maggie out. Boston then walked automatically out of the NEST through the
OPENING to the right. (Why? Was the game afraid I wouldn't make the
connection between the two GRATES or that I wouldn't find the other way out
of the NEST? If the latter, then I felt a little less like an idiot for
missing it the first time, but if so, then there ought to have been more of
a clue to the other exit's existence.) I went up to the FALLS SOURCE to try
to carry out my initial plan. Besides the GRATE, I now had a hotspot on a
ROCK here. I LOOKED at the ROCK and Boston PUSHED it over onto the stone
that controlled the water flow. Water now poured through the open GRATE
again, and I could see it starting to seep out of the corresponding GRATE
near Maggie. I went DOWN back into the NEST and after explaining what I'd
done, I TALKED to Brink again. I now had an option to TALK about the GRATE.
I told him to lure the MONSTER over by the GRATE, so that when Maggie
opened it, the water would blast the MONSTER. Then, automatically, Maggie
opened the GRATE and the MONSTER was no more. After that bit of drama,
Brink demanded his life crystals back. When I tried to talk sense to him he
knocked me down, took all my GLOWING CRYSTALS (as I found by looking in my
inventory) and ran off. Maggie now told me she believed the ghosts we'd
been seeing wanted our help. She thought they might have left for another
world and wanted us to help them get back to this one. I knew the next
thing to do was to go back and see if Maggie could talk to the alien in the
PYRAMID, but first I thought I'd see if she had anything more to tell me
now that she wasn't so preoccupied and had finished her automated speech.
She did tell me she now understood the language, although she wasn't
fluent, and agreed with me that we had to find a way to speak to the alien
inventor. She also said that the TABLET now made some sense to her. The
TABLET spoke of an important thing hidden on the other side of the "hole"
so that none may enter, and gave some instructions for "pulling back this
part of entrance." That was all that she got out of it, and it wasn't much
to go on. She said of the METALLIC PLATES that their shapes were
significant in the written language of the planet and were rife with
symbolism in its culture. She didn't know what they had to do with
navigation, though. I SHOWED ROBBINS the items I'd picked up since I'd seen
her last, but what she had to say wasn't at all helpful. Since Brink had
taken all my life crystals and we'd need some to be able to resurrect the
alien again (and who knew for what else, also), I led Maggie back across
the LIGHT BRIDGES to the MUSEUM SPIRE to see whether we could pick up more
from the basin behind the previously WEAKENED and now BROKEN DOOR. We
could; I TOOK as many as I could carry. We then set off again across the
LIGHT BRIDGES to the TOMB SPIRE. VISITING THE ALIEN CREATOR WITH MAGGIE We
went down into the TOMB and took the "elevator" down into the CRYPT. At the
PYRAMID, I USED the ENGRAVED ROD with the PANEL as before, and then the
GLOWING CRYSTALS with the ALIEN CORPSE. The inventor came alive again.
Maggie clearly had to do the talking here, so when the inventor invited us
to SPEAK, she conducted the interview. Through the amazing exchange that
followed, many of the mysteries of the planet we found ourselves on and its
society became somewhat demystified. We also got a broad-brush sense of
what we should do next.

NOTE: I'm not sure whether the inventor is male, female, or some other
gender, but because it has a deep voice, I'll call it a "he." Sounds less
awkward somehow than it.

We learned that the alien's tomb had been hidden so that only the most
clever and persistent would find him. (Yeah, that's us.) The alien had
chosen to be preserved here in the pyramid as a personal penance for
bringing evil inventions into being; he now served as a guardian, to warn
those who came in response to the probes his society had sent out. The
probes turned out to be a mistake because although the alien's people
believed they had found the secrets to the universe, they did not know of
their dangers. The probes, of which Attila was one, could not be recalled
once sent. The alien would remain until the last of his mistakes had been
rectified, or the life crystals lost their power. The alien himself had
once been hailed as the greatest mind his people had ever produced. His
inventions were thought to be good, and he believed so himself. For this
reason, the museum honored him. He had given his people the power to enter
another world as pure mind, but had been unable to give them the power to
return. The other world, Spacetime Six, contained great beauty and
everlasting life, but without the ability to change, to build, or otherwise
to affect that world or any other. Even so, the beauty of this world was
irresistible. Only through great strength of will could one return, and the
alien's people hadn't been that strong. So now he called himself a bringer
of misfortune, a doer who undoes, a creator who uncreates, although he
would gladly be a destroyer who undestroys. He no longer had a name, nor
wanted a name or memory to live after him when he finally died forever. The
inventor and his people had created the light bridges not only as a
convenience but as a way to open "The Eye" -- when all the light bridges
were complete, "The Eye" would see the three dimensions of time and the
three dimensions of space, and show beauty beyond belief. The metal plates,
each of which had meaning, and when fitted together had a new meaning,
opened the door to beauty without boundary and trouble without end -- but
from which the mind had not the strength to return. The TABLET spoke of
something hidden that had led to the alien's first achievement and greatest
error, the one that had condemned his people. He didn't write the TABLET
and would not have done so. The inventor had also invented the life
crystals, which he called his second biggest mistake -- for they created
not a life, but a slave. They restored the cells and organs, but took away
all that made life worth living. Some of the alien's people believed that
we could help them to get back from Spacetime Six, so they had led us to
him. They were the "ghosts" we'd seen; only the slightest physical
connection to this world remained in them. If his people could return, they
could build a starship to take us home, but this would never happen. He
believed that were we to attempt to help his people, we too would only
become lost in Spacetime Six and never return. He didn't seem to care
whether we got home or not, because the warning Earth would receive were we
never to return was just as effective, if not more so, than if we returned
and recounted all we'd learned here. Our wish to return home was a vain
one, and he discouraged us from attempting it. Thus spake the alien. He
said some other things too, and I encourage you to listen to them to get
some interesting tidbits and fill out the story, but the above seemed to me
to be the crucial points. I listened to all of this in nothing short of
wonder. The alien is most definitely my favorite character in this game.
After I'd absorbed what he said, I tried to figure out how, if at all, it
helped me. The following stood out: If we could bring back the alien's
people from Spacetime Six, they could build a ship that would take us home.
This seemed our only hope of returning to Earth. But first, we'd have to
get to Spacetime Six ourselves. "The Eye" seemed to be the point of entry.
To get "The Eye" to "see," we would need to complete all of the light
bridges. This meant going to the one spire we hadn't found a way to and
setting up a light bridge there. I thought we could reach this last spire
through the ALCOVE's door; the alien's statement that all the PLATES
together would lead to beauty and trouble seemed to confirm this. So we'd
definitely need to find another PLATE and open that door. For now, the only
real clue I had to go on came from the TABLET'S inscription. Maggie hadn't
been able to tell me exactly what it meant, and the alien's statements
about the TABLET puzzled me. Since he thought the TABLET amounted to a
grave error, I felt sure he wouldn't help me with it. The TABLET seemed
crucial to finding the last PLATE, but what it meant or how it worked was
completely beyond me.

THE CLUE ON THE TABLET: Morgie Loses It on Day 3

Something important was hidden on the other side of the hole so that none
may enter... and instructions for "pull[ing] back a part of entrance."
Precious little to go on. I became dreadfully stuck here. For about four
hours, I went from location to location and back again, trying to find an
appropriate "hole" that "none could enter." I thought perhaps the hole
might be the power source in the NEXUS and I'd have to use the remote
again, but attempts to operate it failed. I went back to all the locations
on the surface. I EXAMINED the CREVICE and tried all my items on it (from
which I learned only that it had a glow emanating from it), and the same
with the CRACK in the wall of the PLANETARIUM. I returned to the BEACH on
the MAP SPIRE and found nothing. I revived the alien again and spoke to
him. I tried talking to Brink again. I tried to check out the cave under
the WATER on the MUSEUM SPIRE again, but Maggie refused to go swimming with
me. I kept wondering if this was one of those puzzles that I could really
call myself stuck on in Leo's definition of stuck: "you aren't really stuck
unless you've been thinking about the same puzzle for four months." I took
a break after awhile and logged on to GAMERS where I learned that herc was
still waiting for an eclipse to happen. Hehe. In fairness, he suspected all
along that he might have to make it happen, which displayed far greater
intuition about this puzzle than I had had. He asked whether he'd have to
make it happen and I told him. He also asked whether the place he'd have to
make it happen was on the same spire as the tomb or a different one, so I
told him that too. I tried to make sure not to give anything away that he
didn't ask about. At least I wasn't in any danger of learning what I had to
do next, now that I'd vaulted into the lead. I went back to the game to
give it another try. At the end of all my travels, I'd only discovered one
new thing. When I returned to the STRANGE FIELD on the MAP SPIRE and LOOKED
at it, Boston said something different than he had the first time I'd
LOOKED at it. He noted that the STRANGE FIELD was shimmering, which
prompted Maggie to say that it reminded her of something she'd seen or
read. I took this as an invitation to ask her about the TABLET again, but
somehow, she just said what she'd said before about the hole. I tried
several times with the same result. I left and came back and tried again. I
tried all of what I've mentioned countless times. Wasn't Maggie supposed to
be able to read directions on how to use the things I'd found? I'd been
told this as a clue very early on, and now she, herself, was saying that
the STRANGE FIELD reminded her of something she might have read. Everything
pointed to her doing something with this TABLET. Finally, I SHOWED her the
TABLET and she responded to me. Oddly, the second time I played I found
that all I had to do was TALK to her about the TABLET while in the STRANGE
FIELD screen. I didn't even have to LOOK at the STRANGE FIELD first. This
was true regardless of whether I started from a new game, or a prior save.
I have attempted several times to recreate the problem I had the first time
through, and have been unable to do it. Maybe it was sunspots. Who knows.
All I can say is that it seems to be one of those things for which there is
simply no rational explanation. I did install a new video card between the
time I played initially and the second go round, and I'd had some graphical
glitches and lock ups with the game using my old card that disappeared with
the new one. Maybe that had something to do with it. But I doubt it. In any
event, when I got a response out of Maggie, she had a revelation: the
TABLET exactly described the STRANGE FIELD. It all made sense to her now.
She tinkered with the STRANGE FIELD and raised an ISLAND, seemingly out of
the river. When I LOOKED at the ISLAND, however, I learned that it had
returned from another dimension. Through an OPENING, we entered the bowels
of the ISLAND. The fourth metal PLATE had been hidden here. Actually, it
was in plain view once you got into the ISLAND. (I was still trying to
figure out what the hole was. I sure didn't see anything that looked like a
hole around here.) When we'd taken the PLATE, Boston insisted that we go
get Brink in case using the PLATE in the ALCOVE really did take us
somewhere. Back we went, toward the MAP SPIRE'S LIGHT BRIDGE, intending to
look for Brink where we'd last seen him. But just as we entered the CAVERN,
we felt an earthquake. Immediately after that, Brink sent an SOS over the
PENULTIMATE. He'd been trapped near one of the LIGHT BRIDGES in a CREVICE
near a waterfall and needed our help. I was intimately familiar with the
CREVICE on the PLANETARIUM SPIRE, having tried to do all manner of
unspeakable things to it when I was stuck for four hours for no good
reason. So I figured that's where he meant. We crossed the LIGHT BRIDGES to
the PLANETARIUM SPIRE and entered the CREVICE.

BRINK'S LITTLE MISHAP

Brink had his hand stuck in the same CREVICE Boston had refused to stick
his hand in before (a moment of totally correct instinct, apparently).
Brink had been reaching for some life crystals when the earthquake shifted
the rock and got him stuck there. I wanted to suggest that he just let go
of the crystals then maybe he could get his hand out. You know -- that old
saw about the monkey who won't let go of the banana and can't figure out
why it can't get its hand out of the jar? The situation turned out to be
more serious, though. His circulation was cut off and he couldn't get free.
He begged us to cut off his hand. Maggie seemed horrified at this
suggestion, but Boston thought that the alternative might be gangrene or
starvation. From the discussion, amputation appeared to be the only
solution. We needed something sharp enough to cut through bone. I happened
to have an item noted for its strength and sharpness, and as an added
benefit, shaped like a saw -- the JAWBONE. I USED the JAWBONE with Brink,
and the dirty deed was done. We invited the one-handed Brink to come with
us to the ALCOVE to try the metal PLATE. He resisted, but ultimately agreed
to accompany us in exchange for a promise that we'd leave him alone if our
plan didn't work. The game took us back to the ALCOVE automatically, and I
USED the PLATE with the SLOT to the RIGHT. The PLATES changed shape, and
the ALCOVE door split open. ON THE CATHEDRAL SPIRE Since the PLATES hadn't
taken us home right then and there, Brink stormed off, yelling at us that
he expected us to keep our end of the bargain and leave him alone forever.
What's a Morgie to do? I wasn't going to let this attitude stand in the way
of progress, so Maggie and I went through the OPEN DOOR onto yet another
TRAM platform. I USED the TRAM CALL. A TRAM arrived and we BOARDED it and
took off for parts unknown. NOTE: If you don't have all of the CRYSTALS in
the GLOWING PANEL in the AIRLOCK illuminated, you'll probably have to go
light up the appropriate one first, or you might have some trouble here.
It's a good idea to light them all up, although I encountered some
irregularities in my first game even with them all lit. I finally opted for
lighting all the original ones, and leaving the TOMB SPIRE control dark.
Now that I had a LIGHT BRIDGE, I didn't need to use the TOMB SPIRE tram
anyway. I could always leave that spire for another with a working TRAM if
I needed to go back to the NEXUS. Through a fifth crystalline tube we
rolled, to stop at an outdoor platform with a TRAM CALL and a DOOR. We went
through the DOOR and came into a strange room. Boston observed that he'd
seen a machine like the one now before us in one of the MUSEUM DISPLAYS. I
thought back to the DISPLAYS I had seen and concluded that I had absolutely
no idea what he was talking about. (Later, I realized: the MUSEUM DISPLAY I
thought related to the LIGHT BRIDGES must have actually related to
operating THE EYE. Oh well, whatever works. <GRIN>) Boston seemed convinced
that this machine embodied the inventor's greatest invention. Of course, at
the moment, it didn't seem to be operating. In this screen, I saw two
CONSOLES and two STRANGE OBJECTS. The STRANGE OBJECTS just moved when I
TOUCHED them. I LOOKED at the upper CONSOLE and discovered that a row of
crystalline devices composed it. When I LOOKED at the lower CONSOLE, I saw
that it had two EMPTY SLOTS and a GAP IN MACHINERY. LOOKING at the GAP IN
MACHINERY clarified that a part was missing. It LOOKED like LIFE CRYSTALS
would fit perfectly in the EMPTY SLOTS. This offer, I couldn't refuse. I
USED the GLOWING CRYSTALS with each of the two EMPTY SLOTS to place them
there. Then I wandered around this area for a bit. I discovered that the
screen scrolled vertically. Undoubtedly, I'd find more to explore if I
continued upward. But as usual, I decided to talk to Maggie first to see
whether anything we'd just been through set her to thinking. I noticed
right away that I had a couple of new conversation options: one for the
ALIEN DEVICE and another for the ISLAND. What the heck. I went through all
of the options with her again. When I got to the ALIEN DEVICE, Maggie
suggested that someone sealed in a crystal pyramid might know where the
missing machine part was and what it did. The rest of what she had to say
was either old news or nothing to write home about. I didn't yet know what
waited above us, but now seemed as good a time as any to go back and talk
to our alien again. We got on the TRAM and went back to the NEXUS.

THE BOSTON LOW COURIER SERVICE or ASSORTED TRAVELS AND ERRANDS

We GOT ON the TOMB TRAM and went back to the CRYPT, then on to the PYRAMID.
When I'd USED the ENGRAVED ROD with the PANEL and the GLOWING CRYSTALS with
the ALIEN CORPSE, my translator took over again. This time, the alien told
us that the ALIEN DEVICE opened "The Eye." "The Eye" saw across all space
and time, and where it saw, the mind could fly. "The Eye" was a door to
where the alien's people went, but the alien insisted that it was a one-way
door and even the strongest of will could not return. Maggie argued that we
had to try to get to the alien's people and bring them back since that was
our only chance of getting back to Earth. The alien scoffed at us for
believing ourselves stronger than all his people, but agreed to help us
find the piece he'd hidden if we "knew how to ask." At this point, a
conversation option for the EYE PART appeared, so I TALKED to the ALIEN
about the EYE PART. The alien warned us again against activating "The Eye."
Then he told us to go to the map with a message he was giving us and see
what it showed us. With that, he dropped something on the ground before us.
The rest of what he had to say was interesting, but not crucial. When we
stopped talking, the alien gave us a final warning against "The Eye," then
dropped dead again and the PYRAMID closed around it. I TOOK the CREATOR'S
ENGRAVING from where he'd dropped it and left across the LIGHT BRIDGES for
the MAP SPIRE.

In the MAP ROOM, I EXAMINED the CREATOR'S ENGRAVING, then entered the
combination it showed on the PANEL. The MAP showed us a picture of the
BEACH on the MAP SPIRE where we hadn't been able to do anything yet. We
hiked through the NEST and over to the BEACH. I found the EYE PART
underneath a rock and TOOK it. Since we couldn't get back to the CATHEDRAL
SPIRE by LIGHT BRIDGE, we went to the MAP SPIRE TRAM stop, used the TRAM
CALL, and TOOK the TRAM back to the NEXUS. From there, we transferred for
the CATHEDRAL TRAM and rolled back to that spire. We entered the LAB, and
just as Boston was about to place the EYE PART in the CONSOLE, Brink showed
up demanding life crystals for his "machine." Boston took the crystals I'd
placed in the CONSOLE earlier back out of it and handed them over. Brink
departed after slinging assorted nastiness our way, leaving us crystalless.
Maggie asked if he'd damaged the machine part. I checked, and I still had
it. So I did the obvious -- I USED the EYE PART with the CONSOLE and then
with the GAP IN THE MACHINERY. It clicked into place. Now I needed two more
LIFE CRYSTALS to get the thing up and running. So again, I did the obvious
-- took the TRAM to the NEXUS, transferred for the MUSEUM TRAM, and went
back to look behind the BROKEN DOOR for more LIFE CRYSTALS. Brink had beat
me to it. Every last one of them was gone, leaving only an EMPTY CRYSTAL
REPOSITORY. It seemed I couldn't avoid confronting Brink since he was now
the only known source of LIFE CRYSTALS on the planet. Man. I'd have to go
running off across the LIGHT BRIDGES to the TOMB SPIRE again and hope that
he'd still be on that PLATFORM hovering over his precious RELIC. He was
there, all right. He yelled at us to get away. He'd built a LIFE CRYSTAL
machine, but it wasn't working yet. Something was missing, and he was in no
mood to joke. I tried to LOOK at the RELIC, but Brink chased me away from
it. Why I thought he'd talk to me after this initial reception, I'll never
know. But I tried it. The obvious thing to do in an illogical sort of way.
When I TALKED to BRINK about the ALIEN DEVICE and our need for LIFE
CRYSTALS to make it work, he refused to give me any. My last card was to
TALK to him about the EYE PART. Boston took over from here -- and I really
wanted to give him a good BigBad MaMa smack for what he suggested. Boston
told Brink that he thought the missing part for Brink's machine was that
same EYE PART I'd put in the CONSOLE. Boston and Brink finally cut a deal
-- Boston would let Brink use the EYE PART to get his LIFE CRYSTAL machine
working in exchange for half of the LIFE CRYSTALS it produced. <SIGH> Back
to the CATHEDRAL SPIRE. Time to RETRIEVE the EYE PART and bring it back to
BRINK. TWO MACHINES, ONE EYE PART Maggie and I went back to the SPIRE BASE
and got on the TOMB TRAM, then transferred at the NEXUS for the CATHEDRAL
TRAM. I was starting to get really, really homesick for New York City right
about now. I TOOK the EYE PART from the CONSOLE, then decided there had to
be an easier way than all this back and forth on the TRAMS. Maybe if I
continued up the LAB I'd find a STRANGE DEVICE that might cut down on
travel time. On the way, I stopped to LOOK at some CONTROLS that Boston
said he didn't know how to work, and to TOUCH two more STRANGE OBJECTS that
moved around, but didn't seem to do anything else. I also LOOKED at an
ALIEN DEVICE that Boston was clueless about. OUTSIDE I found what I'd been
looking for. Across a stone bridge to my left, I found another STRANGE
DEVICE on a ledge. This one had a NEST in front of it that seemed to be
positioned just where its LENS ought to be. I LOOKED at the NEST. Boston
kicked it off of the LENS with apologies to the birds. This LENS appeared
to need no adjustment since it wouldn't move when I PUSHED it. All I had to
do was USE the SWITCH on the STRANGE DEVICE as I had done so many times in
the past, and I had my LIGHT BRIDGE. THE EYE had taken the place of the
GLOWING SPHERE in the center of all the LIGHT BRIDGES. I stopped to EXAMINE
it. Boston could almost feel the surface. We moved on across the LIGHT
BRIDGES to the TOMB SPIRE and returned to the PLATFORM to see BRINK and his
RELIC. The RELIC, as it happened, now had a SLOT. When I USED the EYE PART
with the SLOT, the machine started to vibrate. Eventually, it produced a
whopping two LIFE CRYSTALS. Boston took them, arguing that Brink's theft of
all the other LIFE CRYSTALS made these two Boston's under their deal. Then
Boston said he was taking back the EYE PART. Brink could either come with
us through THE EYE once it was working, or stay and take the EYE PART back
later for his machine. I TOOK the EYE PART from the COMPLETED MACHINE. At
this, Brink flew into a rage and jumped Boston. Just as he was about to do
Boston in, he tripped and fell over the edge of the cliff and DOWN to his
second death.

NOTE: After this happens, you can put the EYE PART back in the SLOT again
and get more LIFE CRYSTALS. I didn't do this in my first game, but in the
second I did so that I could try for the alternative ending I'd heard
about. Just be sure that if you do USE the EYE PART again, you remember to
take it with you when you're finished getting more crystals. If you don't,
you'll have to come all the way back here again to get it.

After losing Brink again, we had nothing left to do but return to the
CATHEDRAL SPIRE. We CROSSED the LIGHT BRIDGES back and went down to the
LAB. The moment of truth had come. We'd now see what would happen if we
tried to run the ALIEN DEVICE. I went down to the lower CONSOLE and
INSERTED the EYE PART into the GAP IN MACHINERY. I placed a GLOWING CRYSTAL
in each EMPTY SLOT. The machinery started to rumble. Since Boston still had
no clue when he LOOKED at the upper CONSOLE, I figured that Maggie might
know what to do. After all, early on, Boston had said that her studies
might help us to read any directions we'd need to know. When I asked her
about the ALIEN DEVICE, she told me that working the device might be
dangerous. It could kill us, but there were no guarantees that this would
happen. She extracted a promise from Boston that he wouldn't try to revive
her with a LIFE CRYSTAL if anything happened to her. She assured him that
she had no knowledge of any harm that would happen to the person at the
controls, then proceeded to turn on the machine. A part of the ALIEN DEVICE
was stuck, and when Maggie pried it open, she was struck down and died.
She'd known all along that this would probably happen. Thanks, Mag. But THE
EYE was now restored, so it was time to move on.

ENDING 1 (HAPPY MAGGIE) -- Morgie's Day 3

Since in my game, I hadn't used Brink's machine twice, I had no LIFE
CRYSTALS at this point. So unless I could find more, it wouldn't be hard to
keep my promise to Maggie. I wasn't really planning to break it anyway. I
headed for THE EYE, but when I tried to walk across the LIGHT BRIDGE, I
found my way blocked by a beast that chased me back to the spire, then
retreated. By now, it was again very late at night. I was exhausted. I
tried a few half-hearted attempts at getting rid of the beast. I tried to
FEED it the RIB CAGE, TUSK and JAWBONE. I tried to get back to see the
alien and ask it about this beast, but obviously I wasn't going to be able
to get across the LIGHT BRIDGE, and the TRAM controls had shorted out when
we turned on THE EYE. I was trapped on the spire, and too bushed to think
anymore. So I went to sleep. I didn't feel stuck, but I did have the sense
that a fresh eye would be able to evaluate this situation more clearly.
ENDING 1 (HAPPY MAGGIE) -- Morgie's Day 4 I noticed as soon as I came back
to the game that the creature blocking my way seemed to start chasing me
from _on_ the LIGHT BRIDGE instead of from within THE EYE. If I was right
about this, then all I'd need to do would be to retract the LIGHT BRIDGE,
and the creature should fall off of it. I wasn't really sure how to go
about this, but after trying a few things I found that if I LOOKED at the
STRANGE DEVICE and PRESSED its SWITCH, I could make the line to the right
of the screen disappear, just as I'd made it appear. The next thing I knew,
the creature plummeted to the ground below. Boston seemed to think this was
his last obstacle to getting to THE EYE. He turned out to be right, and I
laughed at myself for going to sleep the night before, just as I'd found
the last puzzle in the game. I USED the STRANGE DEVICE'S SWITCH to reset
the LIGHT BRIDGE, and bravely set off to THE EYE. When I EXAMINED it, I saw
that it was another island floating above ground. I WALKED into THE EYE,
wondering if I'd have the strength to return from Spacetime Six. Through
THE EYE, I encountered a PORTAL. I ENTERED the PORTAL and saw beauty beyond
belief. This was my final act in the game. The ending sequence started
after I entered the PORTAL. Boston wisely chooses to stay close to the
entrance to Spacetime Six. An alien speaks to him. Here in Spacetime Six,
communication occurs mind to mind, so Boston can understand what it says.
The alien says that Boston was as strong as they'd hoped, and that he can
lead all of the lost aliens back to life. One by one, aliens return to
Spacetime Four and pop up all over the planet. They return to life with
death, yes -- but with true life as well. When Boston and the alien emerge
through the portal, the alien speaks of its great debt to Boston. Boston
says he just wants to go home and relate the story of how his friends had
died. Risky as it seems, the alien goes back into the portal and through
the pathways of time, where it finds Maggie and Brink and returns them to
Boston. Brink has aged greatly, but is free of the effect of the life
crystals. Maggie, all smiles and hugs, expresses her gratitude that Boston
had kept his promise and not tried to revive her when she died. Our
travellers board their crystal ship and head for home, knowing that they
have an open invitation for themselves and all humankind to return and
visit their new friends.

ENDING 2 (ANGRY MAGGIE)

After finding myself trapped on the CATHEDRAL SPIRE as before, I USED a
GLOWING CRYSTAL on MAGGIE. She came back to life furious with me and threw
herself off of the cliff at the upper entrance to the LAB. I dealt with the
beast on the LIGHT BRIDGE as outlined above, restored the LIGHT BRIDGE and
ENTERED THE EYE and the PORTAL. The ending sequence progresses exactly the
same as the first, with one exception: when the alien brings Maggie back,
she snarls at Boston, slaps him and says she's not sure she's happy to see
him since he broke his promise to her. But she backs down pretty quickly,
and the remainder of the ending is the same happy one as before.

AFTERWARD

On the remote chance that anyone cares, I did end up finishing THE DIG
before herc did -- but only because I went into my usual obsessive mode and
did nothing else but play until I finished. He finished shortly after I did
without getting stuck at all. But then, talk about someone who has played
adventures since Shep was a pup. (Was that Shep I? Or Shep XIV?) I also
liked THE DIG more than herc did, but then I'd been so looking forward to
this game, I doubt much about it could have seriously disappointed me. It
has been quite awhile since I've played such a balanced game: strong story,
good puzzles, and interesting characters, not to mention an excellent sound
track. Although I became frustrated at points, overcoming frustration is,
for me, part of the enjoyment of playing adventure games. Few things in
life offer such a harmless means of venting one's spleen, and such an easy-
to-come-by feeling of elation when a problem has been solved. If you're
still playing, have fun and good luck! If you've finished, congratulations
and well done! Either way, I'm hopeful that my little tome served you in
some fashion, by way of solutions, ways of thinking about this game and/or
others -- or even just to stir up a chuckle or two.

Copyright  1995 by Morgana. All rights reserved.

                         < Back to the Main Page >
