Mission 1 History:

"This operation is being planned as a success. We can not afford to fail." With that declaration the tone for D day was set. Ally troops were ?  across the channel, seeded inside gliders, whose pilots are only one chance of a sucessful landing. Thousands more traveled to France aboard ? boats, amphibious landcraft that were key for the ally triumph for D day. But the fight for Europe was just beginning, and not everything was going according to plan


Mission 2 History:

Delivering explosive (ord(..)) on an enemy target has always being a major element of modern warfare. Artillery, tanks and bombers (if all get) lethal extensions of the mighty german war machine. (girling  wolf...?), working in (10 v6 might) smashed across Europe, the Channel and (bring the self). But tanks could be stopped, railguns could be destroyed, and airplanes could be shot from the sky


Mission 3 History:

The unseen terror is always the most frightening. And if you are aboard a ship in the icy north Atlantic during the war, you would experience first hand the dread of wandering if you'll ever make it to the port. From facilities like (?), hundreds of german U-boats were launched (.. back ..). But the allies fought back, sub-hunting planes search endelessly for U-boat periscopes. And when they found one, the results could be devastating. Regardless of which sign you fought on, this would be a horrible way to die.

Mission 4 History:

Along with tanks and artillery, a key in (ri?) to the 1939 (degree?) was the Stuka Dive bomber. Its poweful cannons could rip through any piece of armor, and the Stuka  (...) became as powerful as psicological weapon as any of its explosive bombers. (during) hitler success of the Stuka, however, would be short lived. The ally air forces would soon gain the superiority of the sky.

Mission 5 History:

The Nazi (sport) countless man-hours (and lightbox) into the very secret weapons program, specially in the area of jet propulsion. Here, the airframe of a (mission)-163 undergoes a somewhat unsucessful test. The 163 (come) was an amazing little fighter, tought it was often more dangerous to the pilots the flew it than it was to enemy bomber. But despite of its drawbacks, the jet age had begun.

Mission 6 History:

Following in the footsteps of the Me-163, the (messios) Me-262 was the first true (travel) jet fighter aircraft. Capable of flying 100 miles per hour faster then the B-51 Mustang, the 262 (stright) across the sky at more then half the speed of sound. It was an aircraft was truly ahead of its time. The Germans hoped it would impact the air superiority that they so desperatly desire. But the 262 was not invencible, and it was too little, too late for the Luftwaffe.

Mission 7 History:







MISSION 1 BRIEFING

Good Morning, Lieutenant. 
I'm Colonel Hardrobe, from the Office's Strategic Services. I'll get right to the point: the OSS was formed 2 years ago by the Presidencial Order to serves the Intelligence Branch of the United States Military. Our mission is anything and everything. Espionage, sabotage, subversion, search and rescue. You name it, we do it. 

Now, from time to time we recruit people from outside of the regular ranks, specially if they got that particular skill we need. Like you, Lieutenant Patterson. What you did last Monday got our attention. I know you consider yourself just another anonymous part in the transport core. But taking out a half a dozen (?) and then sneak back into friendly territory is quite an impressive feat (of soldering) by anyone's measure.

I had your record from basic OSS pulled. Yours intructors gave you high marks from weapons and ammunitions training. You're the top marksman in your class, excellent leadship skills, noted for being specially smart and resourceful. I also had your University transcript pulled. You were just one semester away from getting an Aerospace Engeneering degree before you enlisted. You went straight "A"s from start to finish. In short, Lieutenant, you are just the kind of man we are looking for. But its completely up to you whether you want to join us or not. 

Unfortunately, there's not much time to make a decision. So if the answer is "Yes", you'll be on a plane within the hour heading back to France. If its "no", you'll be ordered to forget we have ever had this conversation. So, Lieutenant Patterson, what would it be?



MISSION 2 BRIEFING


Congratulations on your first mission. You've gotten a rather dramatic introduction to life in the OSS. I have every confidence you'll gonna make me look like a genius for recruiting you.

Your new assignment is a dangerous one. We're sending you back into enemy territory, but this time you're going undercovers of (RMI) capitain. Now the Germans carry a bad habit from the last world war. One is a love for grocely oversided pieces of artillery. You may have heard of the railguns Dora and (goestal?). Well, meet their new sister, Greta. It became fully operational last week. This is the only (care) photo we've been able to get, because they keep hiding the damn thing. They've spent the last 7 days shooting it at the Channel. This was a fuel (tender), and this was a hospital ship.

Greta's actually smaller than the Dora and the (guestal?), but its capable of firing a more powerlful shell, and its reduced side gives it a high degree of mobility, so they're always able to move it before our bombers can get there. Thats why we're sending you in do it by hand.

The transport leaves in 900 hours. Knock it out of comission, Lieutenant. Good Luck.










