------------------
FILLMORE OFFERINGS
------------------
	Bomb 1 - Seal the northwest Monster Lair.
	Magical Fire - Destroy the rocks just above the first mountain with a blast of Lightning.
	Strength of Angel 1 - Seal the central southern Monster Lair.
	Bridge - Destroy the three Monster Lairs that house Bats.
	Source of Magic 1 - Build near sea (SouthWest, near last Lair). Fishing net
	Source of Magic 2 - Build near woods (East). Found in woods
	Source of Life 3 - Use the Compass obtained from Bloodpool and wait awhile.

-------------------
BLOODPOOL OFFERINGS
-------------------
	Wheat - Destroy at least one Monster Lair, and wait a bit. Infinite supplies.
	Bomb 2 - Seal the bottom center Monster Lair.
	Loaf of Bread - Wait for a short while after sealing off the central bottom White Dragon Lair.
	Magic Skull - Give Teddy the Loaf of Bread after you're told to do so.
	Magical Stardust - Destroy the Red Demon Lair in Bloodpool using the Magic Skull.
	Source of Magic 3 - Defeated Zeppelin Wolf in Act 2. Teddy will bring this back from the temple.
	Compass - Use the Harmonious Music from Kasandora on Bloodpool after you defeat Zeppelin Wolf.
	Source of Life 1 - Use Rain Magic on the northern end of the lake after destroying the Red Demon Lair (only works on some panels).

-------------------
KASANDORA OFFERINGS
-------------------
	Strength of Angel 2 - Seal off the Bat Monster Lair to the north and east of the Temple.
	Source of Magic 4 - Build the road over to the man who was lost in the desert.
	Harmonious Music - Build the road over to the man who was lost in the desert. Requires Act 2?
	Bomb 3 - Seal off the White Dragon Monster Lair in the northeast corner.
	Source of Life 2 - Once the Pyramid has been revealed, use the Earthquake magic.
	Ancient Tablet - Defeat Act 2? Given before plague is cured
	Source of Magic 5 - Build the road down south to the very bottom of the screen and head to the foot of the mountains at the east. Requires Act 2

-----------------
MARAHNA OFFERINGS
-----------------
	Bomb 4 - Seal off the White Dragon Monster Lair to the southeast of the Temple
	Strength of Angel 3 - Seal off the White Dragon Monster Lair to the northwest of the Temple
	Herb - Some time after sealing off the third Monster Lair
	Magical Aura - Cast lightning on the bird-shaped island to the northeast, and use the Ancient Tablet on Marahna. After a short sailboat search, the people will present you with the Magical Aura.

---------------
AITOS OFFERINGS
---------------
	Bomb 5 - Seal off the Flying Skull's Monster Lair.
	Sheep's Fleece - Sometimes after sealing your second Monster Lair (Possibly also after providing wind to the windmills).
	Strength of Angel 4 - Seal off the White Dragon Lair in the center of the region.
	Source of Magic 6 - Sometimes after sealing off the third Monster Lair.

-------------------
NORTHWALL OFFERINGS
-------------------
	Strength of Angel 5 - Seal off the Flying Skull Monster Lair to the north and east of the Temple.
	Bomb 6 - Seal off the Red Demon Monster Lair in the northwest corner of Northwall.
	Source of Magic 7 - Destroy the first two Monster Lairs, and build at least one bridge across the river.
	Magical Light - Warm up the panels surrounding the lake in the northeast area of the map, and once that's done, wait for the people to send out a boat. When it returns, you will obtain the Magical Light.
	Source of Life 4 - Cast Lightning Magic on the Temple.
