https://retroachievements.org/viewtopic.php?t=4568&c=23130#23130
Exclusive Content in v1.0:

The rotating N64 logo upon boot-up is very bright
You can quickly skip through Zelda's text boxes just before she gives you the Light Arrows

Exclusive Glitches in v1.0:

The Master Sword is never restored to the B button after a savewarp, so Swordless Link is possible by savewarping out of the Ganon fight
Can steal the fishing rod by casting while suspended in air via the hover boots, as well as by casting the moment before you jump off of a rock in the pond
You can cast the rod near the door in the fishing pond to crash the game
Can do empty bomb glitch to create collection delay or Quick Draw bombs
The grave holes in Kakariko Graveyard force you to grab their edges/jump over them as Link tries to enter (whether you grab or jump over them depends on your approaching speed).
Can do item input for one frame during Put Away animation, OI by putting away a full bottle, and use items inside a crawlspace or ladder or while pushing a block.
Link has no putaway animation for the sword if he has it out and goes to climb a ladder or vines.


v1.1 is the first update to Ocarina of Time. Many glitches were fixed along with some on-screen text issues and a very minor graphical change was made.
Changes in V1.1:

Can no longer use items during Put Away animation.
The rotating N64 logo upon boot-up has been darkened and looks glossier.
The hover boots and rock-jump methods of stealing the fishing rod are fixed.
You can no longer cast the rod near the door inside of the fishing pond.
If you savewarp without the Master Sword in the inventory as Adult Link, it will be restored to the B button.
Zelda's text before the Light Arrows is no longer skippable.
Various text-box spelling and punctuation errors have been corrected.
The empty bomb glitch is fixed.
The edges of the grave holes in Kakariko Graveyard no longer force you to grab or jump over them as you try to enter.
Link now puts away his sword correctly when going to climb.


NTSC 1.2 is the second revision for the US/Japanese release of the game. This update corrects more text as well makes some notable graphical and sound changes to the game, censoring the blood as well as replacing a controversial song within one of its temples. It also fixes an item-receiving glitch.
Changes in V1.2 (N64):

All the changes that v1.1 made plus....

Ganondorf's and Ganon's blood have been changed from red to green
The Fire Temple theme song has been replaced with a remix of the Shadow Temple's theme
Various text-box spelling and punctuation errors have been corrected
Early eyeball frog and various collection delays have been fixed
You can no longer skip the Bongo-Bongo cutscene by dropping a bomb down before the fight

Source:
http://www.zeldaspeedruns.com/oot/generalknowledge/version-differences
