Zelda no Densetsu: Majora no Kamen                            ver 2.0
The Legend of Zelda: Mask of Majora
FAQ/Walkthrough                                            
                                                                      
First Version: 5/7/00
Latest Version: 10/09/00
----------------------------------------------------------------------
BabyRyoga@aol.com
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Look for these other texts by BabyRyoga:
                                                                      
Wild Arms FAQ and Secrets
Tenchi Souzou (Terranigma) FAQ
Dragon Quest 5 Walkthrough
Dragon Quest Monsters Breeding Chart
Final Fantasy IX FAQ/Walkthrough (Incomplete)
                                                                      
This file and all other files written by me can always be found at:
Http://www.geocities.com/timessquare/lair/2382
                                                                      
This file is copyright BabyRyoga@aol.com. Please do not copy or 
reproduce this list in any way. If you want to use it on a web 
page, you can do so without permission as long as credit is given
and nothing is changed (don't e-mail asking to post it, just go ahead).
It must also be a non-profit web site.
                                                                      
I am also is no expert in the japanese language. If anyone can 
provide advanced elements of the plot, please email me and you will
be given credit.
                                                                      
The names of some items in this walkthrough are incorrect, and will just 
be listed as what they look like or do. In a future version, I will get
all the correct names of the items. Be patient please. If you can read 
kanji, and want to help out, e-mail me. Also if you know the location of
anything else not listed, e-mail me for credit.
                                                                      
With the release of the US version of this game comming just around the 
corner, I must remind people that this is for the <BOLD>JAPANESE</BOLD>
version of this game. Do not mail me saying that the names/info is wrong,
if you have been playing the american version.
                                                                      
If I ever get around to doing it, I will list the changes in the US and 
Japanese versions.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      
Updates
-------
                                                                      
Ver 2.0 - Everything complete! .... well, almost.
                                                                      
Ver 1.6 - More hearts, 10 left to go!
                                                                      
Ver 1.5 - Added a few more pieces of heart, still 12 left to go before finding them all.
                                                                      
Ver 1.4 - Added a few more pieces of heart, and a little bit of info on the subquests
          involving the boy (thought it was a girl) in the keaton mask.
                                                                      
Ver 1.3 - Changed a few things, made a few sections easier to understand. Still looking
          for the rest of the pieces of heart.
                                                                      
Ver 1.2 - More minor fixes, and more heart pieces. Added the location of the special
          mask that allows you to turn into adult Link.
                                                                      
Ver 1.1 - Minor fixes, more hearts. Redid Masks sections, and added the song list. 
          Coming soon: Log book entries. Also added game fuctions section.
                                                                      
Ver 1.0 - Big update on masks and hearts.
                                                                      
Ver 0.9 - Walkthrough up to the final boss, more masks, items and hearts.
                                                                      
Ver 0.8 - Minor update, more masks and items, many more heart pieces.
                                                                      
Ver 0.7 - More items and masks, walkthrough from the Mirror Shield up to right
          after the final dungeon.
                                                                      
Ver 0.6 - Big walkthrough update. Covers dungeon 3 and the 2nd set of 30 golden
          spiders. Stops at the mummy trading sequence.
                                                                      
Ver 0.5 - More items and masks, secret songs listed. Walkthrough from dungeon 2
          up until Link gets the Hookshot.
                                                                      
Ver 0.4 - Added the items and masks section, walkthrough is past the first dungeon
          and up to the crying Goron baby, dungeon 2 comming soon.
                                                                      
Ver 0.3 - Just a rough start, walkthrough up to the Deku Village. A few heart peices,
          More to come very soon. 
                                                                      
                                                                      
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      
Contents
--------
                                                                      
I.   Game Functions (For those who don't know japanese and can't read the manual)
        Starting Off
        The Game Screen
        Controlling Link
            Normal Link
            Riding Epona
            Deku Nuts Link
            Goron Link
            Zora Link
        Explaination of the way the Time System Works; How to Save
        Map of the World of Talmina 
        Characters
                                                                                  
II.  Walkthrough (Some chapters are optional)
                                                                      
        Intro:      The Legend of Zelda Continues
        Chapter 1:  Stalkid the Mask Thief
        Chapter 2:  Back to the Past
        Chapter 3:  The Marshy Cave and the Deku Princess
        Chapter 4:  The Truth Reavled, A Ghost of the Past
        Chapter 5:  The Curse of the Golden Spiders
        Chapter 6:  The Cry of the Goron
        Chapter 7:  The Frozen Caverns of Snowhead
        Chapter 8:  Death Moutain Comes Back to Life
        Chapter 9:  Link's Best Friend, Epona
        Chapter 10: Dismay in the Great Bay of Decay
        Chapter 11: Nightmares in the Night, Ikana Graveyard
        Chapter 12: Fortress of the Female Pirates
        Chapter 13: Zora Land with a Side of Eggs
        Chapter 14: Turtle Island and the Demons of the Sea
        Chapter 15: Arachnophobia
        Chapter 16: Side Quests and Other Lose Ends
        Chapter 17: Negotiations With the Underworld
        Chapter 18: Sunshine on the Illusions of Ikana
        Chapter 19: Time to Scale Rockvale
        Chapter 20: Maze of the Inverted Ruins
        Chapter 21: Mysteries in the World of Talmina
        Chapter 22: The Mask of Majora
        Chapter 23: Finale
                                                                      
III. Item/Mask/Song List
                                                                      
IV.  Heart Container Pieces
                                                                      
V.   Misc Hints and Tricks
                                                                      
VI.  Log Book Entries
                                                                      
VII. Special Thanks
                                                                      
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      
I. Game Functions (For those who don't know japanese and can't read the manual)
                                                                      
Starting Off
------------
                                                                      
As most people should know, you need the 4 MB RAM extension pack to play this game. The
pack comes with the US version of Donkey Kong 64, and can also be bought alone. There are
official versions of it, as well as third party ones. I did not buy Donkey Kong 64, and 
did not want to spend much money, so I bought third party one for 19.95. To install the
pack, just open the door on the top of the N64 (inbetween where the cartridge slot is and
where the controller ports are on the front of the system) and pull out the jumper pack 
using a coin or screw driver. Replace it with your RAM expansion pack and store the jumper
pack safely for later use.
                                                                      
When you push start at the title screen, you are brought to the file screen. The first 3
selections are your save files, of course. The next one down is "Copy", to create a copy
of a saved game. The 5th one down is to Erase a saved game. The last choice is "Options",
which is a good one to start out with.
                                                                      
Selecting options will bring you to antoher screen. The first heading is "Sound", and the
choices under it are "Stereo", "Mono", "Headphone", and "Surround" (Dolby Digital). Make 
sure you select the one that is best suited for you. If you have a Mono connection and 
select Stereo or Surround, you will miss alot of the music/sound effects in the game. The
next heading is "Z-Targeting Type", and the options are "Switch" or "Hold". The bottom
of the options screen just allows you to check color samples.
                                                                      
By highlighting a file, you can create a new adventure. On the name screen, the first choice
at the bottom is for Hiragana characters. The next is for Katakana characters. The third is
for english letters and numbers, so if you don't know what the first 2 mean, or feel more 
comfortable with an english name, select the third. The 4th is "Backsapce", and the last is
"End", plainly enough.
                                                                      
The Game Screen
---------------
                                                                      
In the top right corner is you life bar, in the form of several hearts. You will not get a
Game Over if it is depleated, but rather be warped to the start of the area you were in, 
with a mere 3 hearts. The only real way to get a Game Over is to reach 6:00 am of the 4th
day (which doesn't actually exist, since you get a Game Over after the 3rd). Right below 
that is the magic meter that will slowly drain if you use special attacks, like Link's 
Kaiten Giri, or Spining Slash. Each Link has a special move that will drain a little bit
of your magic meter. Also, using items such as elemental arrows will drain 2 mp, and using
the Light Arrows will drain 3. The green circle on the top is for what action the B button
will execute, usually Link's sword, or other form of attack. The blue is for the A button, 
and will have a japanese word in it, indicating an action such as swimming, opening a door
or chest, etc. The next 3 circles are for the camera buttons that you can assign items to. 
The Up camera button will move the camera and give you a view of things from Link's eyes.
In the bottom left corner of the screen is the rupee symbol that will keep track of how many
rupees you have (the currency in this game). A green rupee means you can reach a max of 100.
A blue one indicates a max of 200, and a pink one means you can carry up to 500 at once. You
will lose all rupees when you go back in time, but there is banker in Clock Town who will 
store them for you. The bottom-middle of the screen contains a game clock, that will have
a number designating the hour of the day, as well as a green circle telling you what day it
is (1st, 2nd, or Last), and a circling sun that is like the minute hand of a clock, but for
hours on this time scale. At 0:00 of the last day, this clock will change into a counter and
count down the last minutes left before you get a game over. The bottom-right corner may or
may not have a mini-map of the area, depending on if you bought one or not in some areas. 
Other areas will automatically give you the mini-map, or might not have one.
                                                                      
The sub-screen can be brought up by pushing start. It consists of many different menus. The
first is the mask screen which will keep track of all the masks you have. On the right side
of that screen, you will have the 3 transformation masks, and a 4th "special" mask in the 
corner. The next screen is the item screen, which will keep track of all your items and
bottles. Going back in time will cause you to lose anything in the bottles on this screen, 
and your stock of items with numbers by them. You will also lose items on the right side of 
this screen, which are usually event or trading items. The next screen is the map screen 
which will show you a map of the world, which has clouds covering some parts. To get rid of
the clouds, you must first goto that area and then find the elf that will sell you the map. 
Elves are in various locations, and high up in the sky. You must shoot their balloon down to
make a deal with them. The final screen keeps track of the number of heart pieces, guardian
masks, Songs, and equipment you currently have (includes sword, shield, quiver, bomb bag). 
You can also reach the Log Book from this screen if you have it, which I will go into detail
about in the Log Book section at the end of this guide.
                                                                      
Controlling Link
----------------
                                                                      
-----------
Normal Link
-----------
                                                                      
B button - Attack with Link's sword (if you have one)
           You can also swim (Oyogu suimen) when in the water with this button and the 
           analog/3-D stick.
                                                                      
Holding down -
                                                                      
           Will execute the Spining Slash (Kaiten Giri) for a small amount of magic.
                                                                      
A button - Execute an action, talk, etc.
           Holding the analog stick in any dirrection and pushing A will execute a roll.
           In the water, you can dive (Moguru) for up to 2 seconds with the A button.
                                                                       
While Z targeting -  
                                                                                 
           You can leap to the side by holding the analog stick to the left
           or right and pushing it.
           Pushing it while holding forword will execute a jumping slash (Jump Giri).
           Holding the analog stick back and pushing A will leap backwards (Back Chyuu)
                                                                      
R button/trigger - Used to hold up Link's shield. If you are Z-Targeting something, or 
                   holding the up camera button, link can walk around while holding the
                   shield up. If you are just holding the R button/trigger, he will duck
                   for cover under it, and you can change the angle he holds it at.
                                                                      
Z Button - Will Z-Target an object or enemy.
                                                                      
special actions:
                                                                      
Jump - Jumping will be executed automatically if Link walks off a ledge.
                                                                      
------------
Riding Epona
------------
                                                                      
Link is invincible while riding Epona, but can still be effected by the blue skull monsters
that disable your sword for a set period of time.
                                                                      
B button - Will fire an arrow, if you have any in your current inventory.
                                                                      
A button - will give Epona a carrot, making her go faster. You have 6 carrots, which will
           slowly regenerate if you run out, or do not use one for a few seconds.
                                                                      
--------------
Deku Nuts Link                                                                      
--------------
                                                                      
Deku Link can make 5 small leaps to skip over water, after which he wall fall in and be 
teleported to the last piece of solid ground he was on. If Deku Link is set on fire or
touches lava, he will be teleported back to the begining of the room or map.
                                                                      
B button - Bubble Spray (Shapon), will use a small amount of magic, hold down for a bigger
           bubble.
                                                                      
A button - Attack, in the form of a spin.
                                                                      
special actions:
                                                                      
Launching - Find a flower-shaped launcher and press the A button on top of it. Yellow 
            launchers will send Link higher and for more time than pink ones. Gusts of
            air in the Rockvale dungeon will also launch Deku Link.
                                                                      
----------
Goron Link                                                                      
----------
                                                                      
Goron Link is resistant to fire, and can walk on lava, but if he falls in deep water, you 
will be teleported back the begining of the room or map.
                                                                      
B button - Punch Attack
                                                                      
A button - Rolling Attack (Marumari), which will use magic when it reaches it's peak. Can
           be used to roll up ramps, and leap over gaps.
                                                                      
special actions:
                                                                      
Press - Leap up in the air and stomp the ground. To execute, hold A and press B.
                                                                      
---------
Zora Link                                                                      
---------
                                                                      
Zora Link can walk underwater. If he is hit by fire or touches lava, you will be teleported
back to the begining of the room or map.
                                                                      
B button - Combo Attack (kougeki), press multipule times for more punches/swipes.
           Will cause Link to sink when pressed in water with analog stick in neutral.
                                                                      
holding down -                                                                      

           Will release 2 boomerangs, which can stun big enemies and kill small ones.
                                                                      
A button - Link will dive and "Fly" through the water at high speeds (Suichuude).
                                                                      
special actions:
                                                                      
Barrier - Press the R button/trigger during Suichuude. Hold down the R button/trigger to 
          keep the barrier up, but beware, it uses magic rather fast.
                                                                      
The Time System and Saving
--------------------------
                                                                      
This game is based on a 3-day clock. 30-45 seconds of real-life time will equal one hour
in the game. You can slow down the time with a special ocarina song mentioned later on in
this FAQ/Walkthrough. Once 24 hours have passed, the next day will start. Certain events/
conversations will only take place on certain days. When you get to 0:00 of the last day, 
the clock at the bottom of the screen will count down from 6 minutes. If it reachs 0, and
the day ends, then you will get a game over. You can use the ocarina at any time to play
the song of time and go back in time. When you go back in time, you will save. You cannot
save otherwise, or travel back without saving first. 
                                                                      
Map of the World of Talmina
---------------------------
                                                                      
An "x" indicates there is an owl statue somewhere in this arrow that can be used to teleport
there with the owl song. an "o" indicates no such statue.
                                                                                              
                             x                    o
     o                   Snow Head  _      Goron no Hokora   
Pirates Fort                         |       |            x          x
     |                                \       x      Ikana Ruins Rockvale
                                        Death Mountain      \ _  / 
     x       -------         |        _/                     x
Great Bay            \       x                        _    Ikana
                        Clock Town -            o  /
     |                       |         - Ikana Graveyard
     x            x      _                   
Zora Hole     Milk Road /      \  
                  o            |o  
             Romani Ranch  Marsh area
                             |x       \
                         Waterfall  Woods  
                             o     
                     Deku Nuts Kingdom
                                                                      
                                                                      
Characters                                                                      
----------
                                                                      
----
Link                                                                      
----
                                                                      
The hero of the story, Link is the protector of princess Zelda and the savior of the land
Hyrule. He accidently finds himself in the land of Talmina, and he is the only one who
can save it from certain doom. Link can change forms using masks he might find on his
quest.
                                                                      
-------
Stalkid                                                                      
-------
                                                                      
An imp who once had no friends, he is the companion of Chat and Trail. He makes a living by
stealing what he can from whoever he meets. By some coincidence, he has stolen the Mask of
Majora as well as Link's Ocarina of Time. He may not be all that bad, but as long as he is
wearing the Mask of Majora, it can control him.
                                                                      
--------------
Chat and Trail
--------------
                                                                      
A white fairy and a black fairy that travel with Stalkid and help him do his dirty deeds,
just to survive. They are brother and sister, and when Chat is separated from Trail, she
decides to help Link catch up with Stalkid.
                                                                      
-----
Epona
-----
                                                                      
Link's horse of choice. Stalkid runs away on her after he steals the ocarina, but seems to
abandon her once he gets away. Link can call her instantly to anywhere in the world, once
he finds where she has gone and learns the right song.
                                                                      
--------------------
The Deku Nuts People
--------------------
                                                                      
They live by the waterfall and can't stand to have non-Deku people enter their kingdom. If
you want to get in, you will need to be a Deku. It is said that their princess has been
kidnapped, and a monkey is being help captive and taking the blame.
                                                                      
----------------
The Goron People
----------------
                                                                      
The live in the normally warm climate of Death Mountain, but the guardian who occupies the
Snowhead dungeon has frozen the moutain over, making it dificult for race such as the Goron
to live there. They tend to freeze into a solid block of ice if in the cold for too long.

---------------
The Zora People
---------------

The water and land dwelling race that lives in the Zora Hole by Great Bay. The Zora people
can swim fast and love music. If you go to their village, maybe you can hear or take part 
in the Zora Band. 

------------------
The Mask Collector
------------------

A man who has collected several masks over the years. He is the holder of the Mask of Majora,
and parks himself right before the gates of Talmina, where he is unaffected by time, hoping
that someone will get his mask back. If you wear a mask, he will tell you it's abilities.

---------------------
Romani and her Sister
---------------------

Two girls who live at and manage to keep the Romani Ranch on Milk Road running. Lately, they
have been plagued by UFOs and poes that appear at night and try to abduct their cattle. Romani
has been practicing with her bow and arrow, but if she tries to defend the cattle and fails,
then she too might be abducted.


II. Walkthrough

                                                                      
Intro: The Legend of Zelda Continues
------------------------------------
                                                                      
After a job well done in his previous adventure, Link rides home on Epona. As he rides 
through the forest, he get a bad feeling that something is lurking nearby. Suddenly, a 
white fairy and a black fairy appear and frighten Epona, who throws Link and knocks him
out. A rouge imp named Stalkid jumps in and searches Link for valuables. He finds the
ocarina of time, and rides off with Epona just as Link comes to. Link then tries to 
follow Stalkid, and finds himself falling down a huge hole. When he looks up, Stalkid
casts a spell that turns Link into A Deku Nut. Stalkid flees so fast, that the white 
fairy named Chat is left behind, and it decides to help Link catch up with Stalkid. 
Further down the road, Link runs into a wandering man with many masks, who also seems to
be the victim of a thieft by Stalkid. He warns Link that time is running out. Soon Link
finds out that he is in a place called Talmina, and that this world will come to an end 
in just 3 days. The people of Clock Town celebrate the end of the world, knowing there is
no way to prevent it... or is there? Wearing masks in this world allows the person wearing
them to use special powers. Maybe once Link gets his ocarina back from Stalkid, he can 
search for special masks to help him stop impending doom from falling from the sky onto 
this strange new world, as well as find a way to get back to Hyrule.. But where is Stalkid?  

Chapter 1: Stalkid the Mask Thief 
---------------------------------

The first scene is pretty foward; just chase Stalkid around. Once you 
fall in the hole, Stalkid will cast a spell on you and change you into Deku
Link. One of his fairy pals will get left behind and decide to help you 
catch up with Stalkid again. Follow that path some more, and get used to using
the flowers as launch pads with Deku Link, beacause you will need to use them 
alot during your quest. Eventually you should see the mask collector guy, and 
a huge door. Once you exit this door, the first day will start, so make sure
you are ready. You will then have 3 days to find Stalkid before the moon crashes
into the planet. The first and only thing you can do right now is find him and
get your ocarina back. 

First, you should make sure you have 5 rupees, and find the little man towards 
the north side of town who will sell you a map of the town. Next, head towards the
southwest corner of the big middle room with the clocktower, and go up a ramp there
to get to the little section at the bottom of the map (It is straight and to the
right of the door you first entered town from). There should be a little fairy 
floating around over the stream there. Hop over and catch the fairy. Head back to
where you bought the map from, go left, then follow the ramp up to the fairy's cave,
and return the fairy. The Huge fairy will appear and grant Deku Link the ability to
spit bubbles. Leave the cave and find the balloon nearby that is floating in the air.
Spit a bubble at it an pop it, which will upset it's owner - a little kid. He will 
call 4 friends, and then they will all hide, giving you 1 day to find them. 2 of the
kids are in the same area you are, be sure to check behind trees and hard to see 
spots. Another kid is in the area on the left side of town, by the shops. If he tries
to run away, spin after him until you can catch up. The remaining 2 kids are on the 
right side of town. One will jump off a ledge when you try to catch him. The other is
on the balcony of the inn, you will need to use a flower launcher and glide over to
catch him. Being the last kid, he will give you a password (Which is different every
time, so don't ask what it is) which you can tell to a kid blocking your way on the
right side of town. The password is in the form of 5 numbers.
                                                                      
You will have to follow the passage and skip over a few platforms as Deku Link. You 
can hop 5 times before falling in, so try to make each one count. There might be a 
monster or two in here somewhere, but it should not pose any problems. When you get to
the ladder, a balloon will prevent you from climbing it. Just pop it like you did the
other one, and continue on. You will see a telescope, and a wizard-type man will ask 
if you want to look through it. Say yes, and zoom in towards to top of the clock to
spot Stalkid. A flaming object will fall out of the moon's eye, and land right outside.
Take the door right by the telescope and pick it up. 
                                                                      
Next, go back to the main part of town and look for the greenish-yellow flower launcher.
Another Deku will fly in. Give him what you picked up, and he will give you a paper in
return. You can trade that later on for a heart piece, but it will vanish if you travel
back with the ocarina. Since you have time to kill, you might want to do it now. Wait
until after 0:00 one night, and use the flower launcher by the inn to get in at night.
Find the room with the hand creature on the bottom floor, and give him the letter (To 
give an item to someone, you must talk to them, and when the box that says to select an
item on the start menu appears, select the item you want to give and push the C button
it is assigned to while that dialouge box is still open).
                                                                      
In order to advance further, you will need to wait until night time of day 3. When you 
see the cut scene of the fireworks at the clock, head back to the yellow launcher in
the middle of town, and use it to get on top of the clock tower where the heart piece
is. Follow the stairs and you will run into Stalkid and his black fairy. He will start
to cast a spell to pull the moon towards the earth, and will be distracted for a second,
so you can stand below him, aim upwards, and knock the ocarina away with a Deku Bubble.
A flashback with Link learning the song of the time will follow. After the scene finishes,
just play the song of time on your ocarina and you will be sent back to day 1. There is 
no way to beat Stalkid at this point, and if you don't travel back in 5 minutes from the
time you entered the room, the moon will crash into the planet.
                                                                      
Chapter 2: Back to the Past
---------------------------
                                                                      
The mask collector will see that you have the ocarina, and play his song which will turn
you back into normal Link. He will also teach you his song, and day 1 will start again.
His song is called the Song of Healing, and can be used to remove curses put on people by
the masks they wear.
                                                                      
Since you are normal Link once again, The guards will now let you leave town if you want 
to, but there are still a few side quests to complete. Wait till night time of day 1
hits, and there should be another fairy on the right side of town. Use the launcher to
catch it and bring it back to the fairy pond, to get a mask from the big fairy. Next,
head back to where you caught the first fairy, and talk to old man in the corner who
will only be there at night (The windmill man from OoT?). You can get the Buruu Mask
from him. Use a scarecrow or the Song of Time Compression (RightC x2, A x 2, DownC x 2) to 
skip ahead to day 3, and goto Milk Road (west of Clock Town). There is an owl statue here,
just smack it with your sword and you will remember it's location. go straight down the
path to find the Lomani Ranch (And not the other one with the gate surrounding what 
looks like a race track). Goto the chicken shed in the back and talk to the guy sitting
under the tree. Help him turn the chicks into chickens by wearing the chicken mask and
marching around the room, collecting all the little yellow chicks on the ground. When
you get them all, the guy under the tree will give you the Bunny Hood, which increases
regular Link's speed and jumping power when you use it. It is one of the most useful regular
masks in the game and will make alot of things much easier.

IMPORTANT ITEM MISSED OFTEN : The Log Book. Go back to the password kid, and through the
sewers with a bomb. take a left down the stream of water near the begining. When you get
to a little ledge in the wall, jump up and blow up the cracked wall to get 100 rupees.
When you leave, the kid will give you the Log Book which keeps track of your adventure
like a dairy. The Log Book is really called Notebook from the Bombers Members, but I will 
refer to it as the Log Book.

Leave town from the exit towards the south end of the middle section, and head straight 
south on the overworld map. Follow the path, and eventually you should reach a swampy 
area. Don't try to get past the octopus monsters you see right now, they will just
spit you away. Make sure it is still day 1 with plenty of time, and find the hut with
the potion selling witch in it. Talk to her, then head to the area in back of her hut,
which is a forest maze type place. Talk to the monkey there, and follow the path he
chooses to get to an injured witch. Talk to her, then head back out of the area and to
the first witch hut, to get a bottle and some medicine. Bring that medicine back to the
injured witch, and she will fly away (back to the first hut in the swampy area, not the
hut with the other witch). You can get a camera from her in there, as well as ride on
the boat which will kill the Octopus monster in the way.

Beware of the water as normal Link after the octopus monster, beacause it will damage 
you, and pretty much mean death if there is nothing to grab on around you. The boat
should stop and ask if you want to get off. Say yes, and talk to the monkeys standing
in front of the entrance to the Deku Village. Go inside the village (As a Deku) and 
talk to the Deku king. Take a picture of him if you want for a prize back at the first
witch hut. Find the monkey locked up on the left and Z-target him to talk. Another monkey
will talk to you as you try to leave.

In the hallway after the 2 Deku Guards are 2 doors that lead to little flashlight mazes
like the castle one in the OoT. Take the left door and avoid the Deku Guards there. There
should be a doorway that leads to another room with Guards that has a heart piece. Find the
hole in this room and follow the path inside it to another hole. You can buy magic beans
from the guy in this hole for 10 rupees each. 

Go back to the entrance of the Deku town, and leap across the lily pads on the right of
the bridge as Deku Link. Follow them all the way, and you should see a place to plant
a magic bean on the floor. Plant a bean here, then either wait for rain, or fill a bottle
up with some water and throw it on the bean. The stalk that appears will take you to the 
upper level of the flashlight maze area. Just glide from one flower launch pad to the next,
until you find the exit that will take you inside the cage with the monkey. Talk to him,
and show him the ocarina to learn the Awake Sanata.

Now go back to the entrance and jump on the pads to the right again, this time jumping on
the little ledge agaist the wall after the 2nd pad or so. Launch up and outside, then follow
the launchers and land next to the top of the waterfall. Use the ocarina in front of the 
slab and you will learn the owl song. The owl song is really called the Big Wind song, but
I will refer to it as the owl song. Launch over the waterfall, and exit into another
marsh area. Follow the wooden planks, gliding when you have to. If you need to kill the
big bug monsters, just spit at them twice. When you get to the plate in the middle of the
room, be sure to slash the owl statue with your sword, so you can instantly come back
here if you need to. When you are ready to enter the dungeon, play the Awake Sanata while
standing on the plate. You must be Deku Link for it to work.

Chapter 3: The Marshy Cave and the Deku Princess
------------------------------------------------

You might notice the fairy floating near the entrance. If you have the Bunny Hood, you can 
easily leap off as regular link and grab it. If not, you might need to glide Deku Link over
to it. There is another fairy in a chest on one of the launcher platforms. Take the launchers
all the way across the room. In the next room, walk down the plank and past the locked door. 
Kill the chopper plant by the locked door to release a 3rd fairy, and grab it. Then you can
leap across the little lily pads to the next room. There is a key against the wall in this 
room, so don't forget to  launch towards it and grab it. You can go onto the next room if you
want, where you will need to fight 3 turtle monsters. Hit them with a bomb to knock them over,
then hit them with the sword, which gets you a map. Go back to the locked door, and open
it. Push the block in the middle of this room foward one, then go around to the other side 
and push it back 2 spaces. Light the unlit torch with a Deku stick. Also, kill the spider in
the corner by the already lit torch to release a 4th fairy. Kill all the dragonflys in the 
next room to get the compass. Leave that room, and put on the Bunny Hood. Light a stick, run
up the stairs, and jump across the platforms. Burn the web away with the stick and continue
up to the next floor.

Follow the path, killing anything you can on the way. Killing them all will make a chest
with a 5th fairy appear. Light the 3 unlit torches to open the door to the next room. Lanch
across the next room, careful of the dragon flies to end up back downstairs (But on the upper
level). Explore the ledges a bit to find a room where a mini-boss awaits. Not too hard, just
Z-target and hack away. Beating him will get you the bow. Exit the room, and use the bow to
hit the eye on the ledge all the way across from where you are now. Take the floating 
launcher that now works over to the door and prepare for another mini-boss.

This boss can be kind of hard. Make sure you have full arrows and lots of bombs before you 
start the fight. At first, you just havta stun him with Deku link and spit at him. But
after 2 spits, his turtle friend comes and makes things more difficult. Wait till he 
crashes into a wall, then throw a bomb at him. Then the frog part of the boss will jump
on the wall. Hit it with an arrow. 3 arrows and the spell on the frog will be broken,
changing it back into a normal frog. If you find yourself dying too much, there is another
way to fight the boss, but it might take slightly longer. As Deku Link, hide in the launcher
in the middle of the room, and launch when it is right on top of you to score a hit, just as
if you hit it with a bomb. If you time it wrong, you might take a hit instead, so this 
meathod really takes patience.

Grab the Boss Key in the back of the room, then head back to the room with the huge plant
in the middle. Stand by the door on the upper level, and fire an arrow through the lit
torch and into the unlit torch on the plant. When the plant pops up, jump on it and aim
through the flame on its torch to hit the other unlit torch. Go through the door that 
opens. Make your way through the next room carefully. Learn the general layout of it, then
fire an arrow at the switch using normal Link and race to go as fast as you can from 
launch pad to launch pad as Deku Link. Eventually you'll get to the boss door - The real
boss.

Boss: Odoruwa

Wow, this game has some pretty interesting bosses. He will leap around the room shouting
his cry and try to slash at you. Just target him and hack away. Try to hit him when he 
slashes and misses, or when he leaps up to try and escape. Sometimes he may summon 
smaller creatures to help, but when he does, just take them out with a spin and get 
the hearts they leave. If he traps you in a circle of fire, just stand and wait for it
to dissapear. If he traps you in a cloud of locust, don't worry as they do very very
little damage and eventually dissapear. After alot of punishment, he will fall over and
you will get a heart container.

(Note: If you want to kill this guy really easy, Z target him and hit him dead on with a 
 leaping slash type attack. He will be stunned just enough for you to leap slash again,
 and so on until he is dead).

(Also Note: If you go back in time, you will need to clear the dungeon again, but once 
 you beat this one, or any of the others, you can simply use a teleporter at the begining
 to skip to the boss).

In a short cut scene, Link will learn a new song and the poison waters will drain from
this dungeon and the surrounding area. You will be teleported to a new room, where the
Deku princess is being held. Use an empty bottle to grab her. If you want, you can go
back in the dungeon, and get the faries you missed. There are 3 or 4 in the room before
the boss, but you havta be quick on hitting the switch and getting over the fire before
it reignites. If you are hit by a flame, you are teleported back to the room entrance.
There is a fairy underwater in the room with the large block in the intersection. There is 
also another fairy in the room with the huge flower that you needed to light up with an
arrow. It is in the corner, under a pot. You can find 2 more faries by looking at the 
ceilings in each room for beehives. Shoot them down with arrows to release faries.

Take the Deku princess back to the king and release her for a short scene, then go back
to the entrance of the village and take the left lily pads over to the cave. You will
need to follow the Deku guy as normal link, wearing the Bunny Hood. If you get too far 
behind, the doors will close and you will need to start over. You get a Pig mask if you
are fast enough and clear the maze. Return all the faries from the first dungeon to
the pond also, that is in the same area as the dungeon. You will get a new sword attack
if you turn them all in. Also, once you get the Pig mask, you can goto the injured witch
and use it to find a purple cloud. Use the bottle on it to get mushrooms, and take them
back to the potion-selling witch. Come back a bit later, and you can get a blue potion
from her for free (the potion that heals life as well as magic).

Chapter 4: The Truth Revealed, A Ghost of the Past
--------------------------------------------------

Go back to Clock town, and exit on the eastern side. Jump up on the little blue wall that is
surrouding the ledge to the east and fire some arrows at the icicle ahead. Jump down into the
canyon and climb up the ramp on the other side to get to the Death Mountain area. Everything
is covered in snow, and large snowballs block the way. Just blow them up with bombs and make
your way to a small village. Find the exit there, and you will be in a place with bridges.
Make sure you take the exit that leads to the map with bridges, not the one with falling
snow balls and huge gaps in the moutainside. Follow the rope bridges and you will be in the 
frozen Goron Village.

First thing to do here is find the owl. He will drop feathers onto invisible platforms over 
a huge pit. You havta be quick in following the feathers, or they will dissapear. You will
also slip on the platforms, so don't use the bunny mask or you will fall off. When you get 
to the other side, go in the cave and pick up the Lens of Truth in a chest. 

Use the lens and you shall see the platforms on the way back. Also, there will be a Ghost
waiting for you at the other end. Follow him (Or his shadow if you don't want to waste magic
on the lens) into the next area, and the area after that. Put on the bunny mask and use the
lens if you weren't before at this point. Follow him some more across 2 ice burgs. You should
see a ladder on the wall. Climb up it and enter the cave at the top. Talk to the ghost, and
play the Song of Healing for him to get the Goron mask. Before you leave the area, look for
an owl statue somewhere outside this cave so you can teleport back with little trouble.

You can explore a little more, or skip right past the next chapter and continue your hunt on
the snowy mountain, but remember where the long ladder you climbed is, you will need to come
back there soon if you decide to do the next chapter.

Chapter 5: The Curse of the Golden Spiders (Optional)
----------------------------------------------------

You will need a Deku stick, 2 magic beans, and a bottle to complete this next task. Go
down the stream some more from the Deku village, until you see a burning torch and a spider 
web. Use the stick to burn open the web and enter the cave. In here is a guy cursed to 
be a spider. The only way to break the spell on him is to destroy all the spiders inside and
collect the tokens they leave.

The first is in a jar next to the platform you start on. Then go along the wall to the 
closest door you can find. There is a boulder in the corner of that room that needs to 
be destroyed with a bomb. After you destroy it, plant the magic seed where it was and
water it. Roll into the boxes around this room to get spiders number 2 and 3. Climb the
ladder on the side wall and go across the balcony. Number 4 is behind a burning torch.
Go through the door up there, and look on the side of each pillar on ledge it leads to
and you will get number 5. Glide across and enter the door on the other side. Use the 
laucnher in there to get to the ledge on the left side of the room, and lift up the
stone to catch some bugs with your jar. Go through the door and hit the switch to make 
a ladder appear on the wall. Shoot the spider on the ladder with an arrow, making it
the 6th. Go back into the first room and kill one in the water, and one on a pillar.
Wait till the pillar one is low enough to kill so you can grab the token it leaves.
The 9th is back in the room with the rock you had to blow up. Ride the bean stalk along
the wall and kill it. In the same room, climb the ladder and use the bunny mask to jump
over onto the pillar in the center of the room to kill number 10. Go up the ladder again
and through thr door. Shoot the spider on the wall in the main room with an arrow or 
bubble and use the launcher to get the token. Launch across and to the platform where the
rock with the bugs are and get number 12 on the wall, then take that door and climb the
switch ladder again. Plant and water the magic bean there. Jump back down and get the one 
on the pillar, then climb up the switch ladder again and ride on the stalk as far as it will
go to get another spider on the wall. Then use the stalk to get to the door. You will come
to a room with a tree. Roll into the tree until all the spiders fall out and kill them all.
You should have 19 after all the spiders in here are dead. Don't forget to look for them in
the tall grass too. Go back to the room with the big pots. There is one under the set of jars
in the corner. Also, slash the green plant covered wall behind the scared Deku to find one.
Back in the room with the stalk (not the one where you blew up a rock), Ride the stalk and
jump onto one of the pillars. Shoot the beehives down with an arrow to find number 22. There
are 3 more in the main room. Catch some bugs and release them wherever you see a patch of 
soil on the wall (where you would beable to plant beans). Go back to the room with the large
pots and wear the Goron mask. Hit and roll into the pots until 2 more spiders come out.
There are another 2 spiders in the beehives on the ceiling. finally, the last spider is
in a beehive in the room with the large tree. Go back to the cursed spider in the very 
first room now, who will be human again. He will give you a mask that allows you to talk to
gossip stones and animals. You can go back and play the Awake Sanata for the Scared Deku
in the pot room, but all it seems to do is let you use the launcher it was hiding in.
Sorry if the order I listed these in is kind of confusing, it is the order I found them in
myself.

Chapter 6: The Cry of the Goron
-------------------------------

As Goron Link, go to the snowy Goron Village (Its where you got the Lens of Truth). A Goron
near the top will show you how to open the door when you talk to him. Go outside the door,
and do the Goron Stomp move to open it. You will be on the inside of the Goron's village, and
hear a loud crying baby. Goto the throne room and talk to the baby.

Use the owl song to teleport to the statue on death mountain. Use the Lens of Truth to get
back to the cave where you got the Goron mask. As Goron Link, get in back of the slab in 
the middle of the cave and pull it backwards to reveal a hidden hot spring. You can bottle 
the water from this spring and use it to unfreeze a frozen Goron. Start with the one outside,
the go back and grab some more water.

The spring water will turn into normal water if you don't use it in about a minute or so, so
run as fast as you can from that cave to the next area - the one with the rope bridges. smash
the snowballs until you find a frozen old Goron and use the water to thaw it. If you can't seem
to make it in time, you can use the water to melt the huge block over the hole on the hill in 
that area to get to another hot spring. You can also use water from there to melt the ice in
Goron village and talk to the big Goron (which is mentioned later). Talk to the unfrozen old
Goron, and you will learn part of the Goron's Lullaby Song. Return to the crying baby Goron and
play that part of the song to learn the rest.

Now go back to where the hot springs are, but look for another path leading out of the area.
You will need to use Goron Link for the next area. Roll to gain speed and when you are going
your fastest, use the wooden ramps to leap over the holes. When you get to the end, and the
next area, there is an owl statue that you can use to get back here at any time you want. 
Play the Goron Lullaby here, and you are ready to advance onto the second dungeon. Just punch
any snowballs that get in your way on the way up the path to the cave, but be carefull not
to fall of the ledge from the force of the impact. There is a fairy fountain on the way up, 
if you need it, or if you rescue all the faries in this dungeon.

Chapter 7: The Frozen Caverns of Snowhead
-----------------------------------------

Punch the icicles at the entrance, and push the block foward to move on. Take the door on the
right, and roll across the bridge, gaining speed so you can jump over the middle part. Exit
through the door against the left wall, not the one across a small gap. From the big room,
find the room with the little bouncing fire skulls. You can hit a switch in here to release
a Fairy. next, go back to the room with the bridge. Leap across the gap and go upstairs.

There is a chest in this room that has the map, as well as the 2nd fairy hiding in a corner.
Go back, and jump down. Shoot an arrow up at the bubble under the ledge to release a fairy.
Go back up and roll into it or hang of the ledge with normal link to get it.

Go back to the big room, and go across to a door on the other side. Pull the 2 blocks over 
to the white area and push them to the end of the white area to make a chest appear overhead.
Go back to where the blocks were originally, and open a chest for a key. Now you need to go 
back to the begining and take the left door that was locked before. There is a chest with the
compass in this room. Bomb the wall at the end of the room and continue on.

Use Link with the Bunny Hood to jump from pillar to pillar in this room. When you see a white
stain of ice on the wall, jump towards it and you will go through the wall and find a fairy.
Jump from that ledge with the fairy to the next ledge, and finally to the last ledge to get a 
key, and use that on the locked door in this room. In the next room, stomp on the gold block
with Goron Link, then jump over to the other side. Jump on the blue one, then back to the 
raised gold platform. Jump on that, then use normal link to jump on the raised blue one and
back onto the ledge. Go through the door. Roll and jump over the gap in the bridge, then roll
and gain enough speed to roll over the steep part of the wall. Turn around, then roll and
jump over that bridge. 

Time for a tricky little mini-boss. He will teleport to one of the corners of the room, then
spin his rod and try to freeze you. After you hit him twice, a clone will appear and they
will both switch teleporters once before the real one attacks. No big deal, just punch him
with Goron link 3 times to defeat him. After he is dead, you will pick up the fire arrows.

Now you can melt whatever ice gets in your way. If you go back to the previously locked door 
by the entrance, there are 2 faries in the following room. You can melt the ice in there for
a block and a switch. Use the block first to leap up and go back to the room where a chest
appeared overhead before to get one. Step on the switch and use the block to get the chest 
that appears for 2.

Find and melt all the ice blocks you can. The room you are looking for is one with many raised
platforms and the statues that spit ice at you. Kill all the statues, and jump over to the
door that is shut. Shoot fire arrows and light all the torches to open the door. In the next
room, stomp the switch with goron link. Go back to the room near the begining where you had
to roll across the bridge for the first time in here and kill everything now that you have the
fire arrows to get a key. Leap to the door on the ledge (that had a fairy under it) and jump
on the pillar in that room. Kill the statue with a fire arrow, then hit the switch with one.
In the central pillar room, move up when you can. You might need to use the wall to roll with
Goron Link.

When you get to the top floor, roll down one, and unlock the door. In the next rooms, kill all
the monsters for 2 faries, then go on to the mini-boss. It is the same one as before, just with
more teleporters, more clones, and 4 hits instead of 3. Waste him, and take the boss key. At 
this point, you will need to goto the central pillar room and punch away all of the blue 
sections. After you have done that, go back to where the final locked door was, roll up, and
cross the pillar. Climb up the stairs and use Goron Link to roll over the gap. 

Boss: Goato

A rather fun boss to run. Use Goron Link and roll to follow him up the endless tunnels. When
you run low on magic, just hit one of the pots. Avoid the rocks and when you hit him, try to
dodge left and right because he will spit a bolt at you. When you hit him enough, he will 
fall down, then get back up and run faster. This time he will also throw bombs, which hurt
to be hit by. Just ram him a few more times to turn this bull into veil. Grab the heart
container, and the area around will thaw out. Death mountain is back to normal! Finding
all the faries (Even though I barely found half) in this dungeon will get you double magic
if you bring them back to the fairy outside and down the moutain a tiny ways.

Chapter 8: Death Mountain Comes Back to Life
--------------------------------------------

Now there are many side quests you can complete. First thing, is the blacksmith. He is in the
building right by the owl statue on death moutain. For 100 rupees, he will upgrade your sword
to level 2. You will lose the level 2 sword if you go back, though, so read on to find out 
how to get the level 3 one which is perminant.

You can also go back to the cave right by Goron Village as a Goron and the big Goron there
will give you a big bomb. Take this bomb as fast as you can outside and back to the other
side of the rope bridges. Throw it up the hills in the begining of that area and let it blow
up the big rock up there. After you blow that rock up, you are able to buy more
big bombs from the big Goron.

Behind the first rock you blow up are the Goron races. If Death Mountain is currently thawed 
out, you can compete as Goron Link. First place will get you a second bottle item to use,
as well as the contents of that jar, which can be used at the blacksmith after you have 
upgraded your sword once. If you upgrade the sword, and do not bring the jar back to the
blacksmith, the upgrade will vanish if you use the ocarina to go back to day 1. You must get
the sword upgraded on day 1 and then bring the jar to him on day 2, as it takes time. Also, 
If you go back, The moutain will freeze again. If you go back and Death Moutain freezes over
again, you can just ocarina to the owl at Snowhead and use the teleporter in the first room 
of the cave to skip right to the boss again. 

You can also do the big bomb quest if you have the fire arrows, and have not completed the
cave yet, but doing so this way will not allow you to compete in the races until the moutain
has thawed out.

You can also get a peace of meat by breaking the spining pot by the crying baby in Goron City,
by lighting all the touches and uses goron link to break all the vases that are on the lamp.
If you take this meat to the Goron with the frog on his head, he will give you the Ribbit's
Mask.

If you have the Zora Mask, you can grab a piece of heart in a chest that is now underwater.
It is on the same map as the Goron Races are, just watch out for the annoying skeleton fish
monsters that now swim around the area.

Chapter 9: Link's Best Friend, Epona
------------------------------------

After you have completed the time bomb quest (Hopefully with time to spare on day 1), Get
another big bomb from the big Goron and use the ocarina to get to the owl on milk road. 
Detonate the super bomb next to the big rock that blocks the Lomani ranch and enter on the
first day. Talk to the little girl, and you will have to ride Epona and shoot down 10 baloons.
I think you are supposed to do this in under a minute or 2, so it might take a little 
practice. When you do it right, she will teach you Epona's song. If you cannot find her, it
is probably already day 2. You will need to go back and get there on day 1.

You can also do a little side quest here for a 3rd bottle, if you have the log book. It 
involves Link keeping all the ghosts away from the barn until day break of day 2. Wait 
until night of day 1 falls, and wait outside of the barn until about 2:00 am. Romani will
come out and walk into the barn. Follow her, and after a few more seconds, A whole bunch of
poes will appear. You can only kill them with a shot from the arrow, and the only way to
get more arrows is to pick up what one drops. If one of them makes it close enough to the 
barn, you will lose and the cows + Romani will be abducted. If you can hold off the poes 
long enough, you will get yourself a 3rd bottle. The key to winning this mini-game is to
watch the location of the dots on the map. Sometimes a poe will sneak up from behind the
house, and you will need to kill it before it reaches the back. 

If you complete this task, you can come back the next day and talk to the older sister for
another little challenge. You will have to help her deliver the milk, by using your bow
and arrows. If you win this little game, you will get a Romani's mask from her.

Chapter 10: Dismay in the Great Bay of Decay
--------------------------------------------

With Epona, you can reach some new areas by leaping over fences. Goto the beachy area on the
northwest corner of the main map. Jump over the fences in your way to get to Great Bay. It
is good to have a map of this area, so if you don't, you might get lost easily. One of the
little baloon guys will sell you one, maybe the one on Milk Road. Anyways, walk along the
beach until the change to take a hint from your fairy comes (UpC button). She will point
out a Zora Person in the water with seagulls floating overhead. 

Swim out to this Zora, and try to talk to him. When that doesn't work, get behind him and
push him over to land. When he comes to, he will play you a song and shout out a few words
before collapsing. Play the Song of Healing, and you will go through a short cut scene
that will end in Link getting the Zora mask.

Now that you have the Zora mask, you can get a heart container by defeating the monster at
the bottom of the waterfall on the next map over. Becareful, it is hard to fight underwater,
and this monster can suck you up and sometimes steal things.

On this same map, there is also an empty house with a cracked wall. Bomb that wall and you
will find the 2nd set of 30 golden spiders to defeat. I will come back to that later, in
Chapter 15.

There is also another heart piece back on Death Moutain if it is thawed. In the room with
the rope bridges and Goron races, there is a chest on the ground underwater that Zora Link
can open. 

You can skip the next chapter and save it for later, or do it now. The order you do some of
the next events in is not very important.

Chapter 11: Nightmares in the Night, Ikana Graveyard
----------------------------------------------------

More places than just the beach open once you can leap with Epona. Go east of Clock Town and
hop over the fence in the area with all the bomb wielding rats. Instead of going straight, 
turn and exit north to get to the graveyard type area. Make sure you first come here at 
night. Goto the big skeleton that is asleep under the archway in the house. Play the Awake
Sanata, and prepare for an interesting battle.

Boss: Big Skeleton

He will try to run away, and as he runs further up the path, flames will block your path and
skeletons will appear. Wear the Bunny Hood, and target him right when the fight starts. Hit
him in the back with a normal arrow. Run up a bit while he is stunned and try to keep him 
stunned with arrows while fighting the little skeletons with your sword. If he gets too far 
ahead to shoot, you will probably need to leave and try again. 

Once you get close enough to hit him with your sword, the real fight will start and no more
flames will appear. He takes alot of hits, but is not really a problem in to kill. After
he is hit maybe 20 times or so, he will start to jump and try to land on Link. Just avoid
the shadow when you see it appear and strike some more. After you beat the Big Skeleton, 
you will get a new mask.

Wear this mask and talk to the skeletons down the path a bit. Choose the second choice and
jump down the hole that opens. Leap across a few gaps and kill all the bats in the next room
with Deku Link. Use fire arrows to light the torches and the door will open.

Boss: Axe Knight

This guy is easy, but one error can cost you 4-5 hearts a hit. first, target the statue 
before it starts moving and hit it then back up quickly. Keep it targeted, and wait for it
to miss. If it slashes twice, leap and hit it once. If it takes a big lunge and misses, hit
it twice while it pulls its axe back up. After a few hits, part of his armor will break off
and he will move twice as fast. It can get hard at this point, just try to stay as far away
from him as possible. You might also want to only attack when he does the lunge, but be careful,
he can do it quicker and with longer range. You can also just keep him at bay when he tries to 
attack with regular slashes rather than leap slashes. When you win, you can climb up the 
stairs, and Z-target the stone to learn the Song of Storms.

If you come back on the second night and talk to the skeletons, you will get a hole that leads
to some rupees. Try putting on the Lens of Truth and going through the door that appears.
In the next small area, there will be invisible bats and spiders, and an invisible pathway
to walk across. If you use the Lens of Truth for just a second, then turn it off, no magic
will be wasted, so you can just push the button it's assigned to rapidly and not worry about
using it for too long. When you get to the dead end, look for a crack in the wall and use a
bomb.

Boss: Axe Knight

Now this guy is just plain boring. Waste him and pick up a heart container piece.

If you come back on the 3rd night, you will fall down a hole where the grave digger is. The
object here is to find 3 blue spirits hidden under the dirt. You need to walk  REALLY slowly 
for the grave digger to follow you. If you go too fast, he might get lost, and you will need
to correct him. Take him over the the mounds of dirt to search for spirts. Watch out for the
hand that will fall down from the roof. If you see a shadow, move out of the way and slash 
the hand that comes down. There are 2 mounds of dirt above ground level. To  get the digger
to these ones, lead him over to the switches on the floor, and step off when  he steps on, 
then run over and climb up to where it leads him to, before he walks off by accident. When 
you get them all, you will need to fight a boss.

Boss: Big Poe

This boss can be kind of tricky. You must wait for him to stop spinning then hit him with an
arrow 4-5 times. A good place to go to fight him is the hall way where you first came in. 
Dodge him when he spins at you then shoot him. When you win, you can open a chest for the
4th bottle item. You can also catch a big poe in the center of the room, but i'm not sure
what it does yet.

Chapter 12: Fortress of the Female Pirates
------------------------------------------

As Zora Link, explore the underwater area of the first map of Great Bay. Head all the way
to the right, and there should be wooden boards against the rock wall with the skull and
crossbones symbol on them. Crash through these and reveal a hidden passage to what appears
to be the pirate's hideout.

There will be several pirates patrolling the area outside the fortress in boards. If one 
spots you, you will be thrown out, just like the Deku maze. Try to sneak against a wall and
jump down into the water as Zora Link. Find the vent in the fort that shoots currents of 
water to push you back, then walk up the orange metal pathway by there. Follow that path, 
careful not to be spoted when you surface, and jump on the switch as Goron Link. The green
grate underwater on the other side will open. Jump back down and enter through there.

Follow the corridor and you will get to a mini underwater maze. Break the wooden boards 
when you have to, and push/pull the blocks to get through. Not very tough. Swim to the
switch that is shooting jets of water upwards, and follow the current. Watch out for the
spiked balls and the gaps in the wall. If you are pulled into one, you will be throw back
out to the big entrance lagoon type area with the pirates in boats.

Jump up and enter a door on the ledge to be in an area with spiked balls and a jail cell
tpye structure with a heart piece in it. Climb up the set of stairs and use Goron Link to
smash the barrels, then step on the switch and roll back down before the door shuts to get
the heart. 

Climb back up the stairs, and smash the barrels on the edge of the ledge. Fire an arrow at
the metal plate you see, then jump in the water as Zora Link and swim out before the grate
that opened closes. Follow that corridor, watching out for the gaps in the walls again. 
In the next room, hit the switch to make the metal plate visable, then stand on the little
drain thing and fire an arrow at the plate so a column of water will lift you up. Fire an
arrow at the plate in the next room to open the locked door.

You will be on the wall back in the entrance lagoon place. Follow the path and you will
actually be inside the fort. You need to sneak past all the guards and up the ladder in 
the middle of this map. When you get to the top, sneak past the guard on the tower and 
across the bridge. If you can't sneak up the ladder, you can snipe away the guards with an
arrow to knock them out temporarily. You will see a small scene with the leader of this band
at the top. Shoot the beehive through the bars into the room to make all the guards run away,
then jump down and get the Hookshot. Now is a good time to go back to day 1, but you aren't
quite done with this area yet.

Chapter 13: Zora Land with a Side of Eggs
-----------------------------------------

You should make sure you have at least 4 empty bottles before you atempt this next part. Now
that you have the Hookshot, you can skip the underwater area of the pirate's fort when you 
want to get back. Just goto the first switch that you had to jump on as Goron Link, and use
the Hookshot to get aross. The next thing you have to do is collect 7 eggs in your bottles.
There are 4 in this fortress area.

The first egg can be grabbed by going back to the room where you got the Hookshot. You can
knock guards out with arrows or the Hookshot if they get too bothersome. Aim for the wooden
plank above the tank with your Hookshot and shoot it to get up there. Grab the egg that is 
in the bottle, but watch out for the snapping clam.

Another egg is in a door high up and by where you first entered this inner fort area. Use 
the Hookshoot a few times to get up there. You will need to fight a little wimp boss.

Boss: Red Female Pirate

2 slashes with the level 3 sword and she is gone. Hit the wooden plank with the Hookshot, then
shoot all the dead fish inside with arrows before diving in and grabbing the egg in another
of your bottles.

The 3rd one is towards the back of the fortress. Use the Hookshot to go up a ledge like you
did for the last one. Another mini-boss fight guarding the room with the egg.

Boss: Green Female Pirate

This one takes 3 slashes instead of 2. Watch out for the spin attack that will knock you out
and kick you back outside. Grab the egg in the tank, just like the first one and hop back out.

The last egg is right by the second one. Go back to the door from the inner fort map that
lead to the second egg, turn around, and shoot another Hookshot post on the other side to
go up to it, and knock the guard out. In the next room, the chest is a fake. Knock all 3 of 
the guards out, then jump down and go up the other side.

Boss: Pink Female Pirate

Barely worth mentioning. Hurt her badly for even trying, then go onto the next room and grab
this egg just like you did the others.

After you have all the eggs, goto the lab on the first map of Great Bay. There is an owl 
statue outside, and it is in the water by where you got the Zora mask. Talk to the guy in
there, then climb the ladder next to him and drop all the eggs in.

Next, look for 2 blocks on the map of Great Bay. They are by where you found the Pirate
Fortress. Swim over to these and walk through them (inbetween). You will be in another
area where you must follow the signs to get through a mini maze. If you mess up, you will
start over. Dive down and go straight from the start to a sign. Go in the dirrection that
sign is pointing and walk past the next one you bump into. Walk until you see another sign
and follow that one to the next. Turn, and take that one to the next one. Look around from
here and you should see a sign nearby. Walk over to that one, and then the dirrection which
it points to.

You will now need to fight the eels in the huge sea crater before you. They live in holes at 
various heights in the crater. To hit them, wait till they come out and use Zora Link's 
barrier attack (The R button). Some of the eel holes will have eggs for you to bottle up in
them. Get the 3 eggs from here, and take them back to the lab like you did the other ones.
When you drop them in the tank and jump down, all 7 will hatch and the tadpoles will write
out some notes.

Talk to the man, and target him. Use your Ocarina as Link, and he will comment that it didn't
seem to work. Put on the Zora mask, then play it again. You will learn the song that the
tadpoles wrote out, which happens to be the Bossanova of the Sea's Roar.

Chapter 14: Turtle Island and the Demons of the Sea
---------------------------------------------------

Before you go, you might want to catch a few faries. The boss of this place can be pretty
hard. When you are ready, Use the owl song to get to the statue in Zora's Keep, and play
the Bossanova of the Sea's Roar for the female Zora outside of the entrance to the Zora Hole. 
A large turtle with trees on it's back will swim up, and you can use the Hookshot to get up 
there. It will take you over to the 3rd dungeon, the Great Bay dungeon.

Go straight and through the door. There is a fairy underwater under the platform you are 
standing on. Jump off to the left, onto the elevator platform. jump onto the little corner
platform and kill the spider for another fairy. Go back to the door and jump off to the 
right onto an elevator platform. Jump off that to the next platform. Jump into the water 
and find the turnstyle looking thing. Pull on it, so another grate begins to shoot water.
Jump back up and take the right elevator, then jump to the plaform, and onto the grate that
is now shooting a pillar of water. Jump from there to the ledge on the other side of the room.

Follow that ledge to a hallway into the next room. There is a fairy in one of the barrels in
this room. jump onto the spinning wooden propeller and then to the side of the room to get it.
Jump down into the water, and go through the hallways down there until you find a room with 
a big chest. Get to the platform in the corner, and hookshot over to the chest to get the 
Map. Use the Hoookshot to break one of the pots here too, for a fairy. If you wear the fairy
mask, it will fly over to you.

Find the underwater hall in that room with the hand-like creatures and hit them with the Zora
Boomerang to kill them. got down that hall, and come up, and go through the door to find a
room with another big chest. Hookshot over to get it, and youll have the compass.

Hop back over to the door you came from with Deku Link, then shoot all the chopper plants
in the next room with bubbles using Deku Link. When they are all dead, a chest will appear
that you can Hookshot over to and get a fairy.

Back in the room with the compass, you can get a key in a chest underwater in the middle
of the room. Go back to the room with the huge spinning pillar and break the pot at the
bottom for fairy number 6. In the room with the compass is fairy number 7. Turn right when
you enter and kill the 2 hand monsters down below, then break the pot. use the fairy mask
and it will fly to you.

Now that you have a key, go all the way to the bottom of the spinning room, and through the
hall there. Climb up the red pipe on the side of the room to get to a locked door. In the
next room, kill the blobs and get all the chests.

Time to fight a classic Zelda mini-boss, touched up a bit. In the next room, you will fight
the ol' Big eye with tons of small eyes around it boss. This time, there are 30 or maybe even
50 eyes around it! You can knock little eyes off fast by using arrows and bombs. When you run
out, use the hookshot and the sword. Hit the big eye a few times to cause it to throw off all
the little ones and zoom around madly. Stay in a corner, and when it runs at you with its eye
open, slash it in the eye. When you kill it, you will get the ice arrows. Oh, almost forgot.
To start this fight, look up when you enter the room.

Ice arrows can make platforms when shot into the water. Go back to the room with the map.
Use ice arrows to get over to the foor with the icicles and melt the block of ice there with
a fire arrow. 

Another interesting mini boss. Tons of blobs will jump around the room, along with a frog.
Slash the frog, then all the blobs will turn into 1 and jump up with him. Aim an ice arrow
at the huge blob to make it fall down and shatter. If he lands on you in the big blob form, 
you will lose some major health. A few slashes should do him in. Then you can go back to the
other room and get the boss key.

Go back to the spinning windmill room, and jump on top of the rotating blades. Ride them to 
the ladder that is surrounded by flowing water, and shoot that with an ice arrow. Take that 
ladder to a big room. Hookshot over the to barrel, then freze your way across to the other
platform with the green turn switch. Turn that, then head to the room where you got the map.
Freeze your way across from the map chest to get to another room. Freeze the blob monster
when it is close enough to the platform, and use it to jump up and hit the red turn switch.
Go back to the room before the ice arrow boss, and shoot the octopus guys with ice arrows 
when they leap up. Use them to jump up and hit the red switch on that platform.

Now go back to the very first room. The red pump in the corner should be spraying water.
Aim for the Hookshot target on the ceiling above it to get over to it, and hit that red
turn switch, then turn the switch on the other side of the room off, so the flow of the
water in the big spinning windmill room is reversed. 

Go back to the windmill room, and take the hallway all the way on the bottom. There is a
fairy in a bubble in the hallway that leads back to the windmill room from here. pop the
bubble with a Zora Boomerang, and get the fairy to make 8. In the same room, climb the
green pipe and shoot and arrow at the fairy bubble in the middle of the room. Use the
Big Fairy Mask to get the 9th one. 

Climb up the green pipe again and follow it to hit another green switch. Now go back to 
the spinning windmill room and go through the other hallway that opened. Climb up to
the corner of the room and use the elevator to jump over to the pipe. From the pipe, 
jump to the other elevator that is moving sideways. From there, jump over to the ledge 
and you will need to fire an ice arrow at the waterfall at the right time, so that the
windmill will stop when it is almost even with you so you can jump across. If you mess up,
just hit it with a fire arrow, then try again. Jump across the windmill and into the gap
in the wall. 

In the next room, goto the see-saw type thing farthest away from the entrance and step on
the lowered part, then fire a fire arrow up at the ice on the ceiling to make it raise.
Jump over to the next one and repeat. Hit the last green turn switch, then head back to
the room when you hit the 2nd green turn switch and get ready for the boss.

Boss: Gyoaku

This guy is HARD. He will swim around and try to knock you off the platform, then swallow 
you in the water, or when you climb back up. He has 2 ways of knocking you off. He might
ram into the platform, which will throw you a few feet. If you are in the center of the 
platform you won't fall off. He also might leap up and jump over the platform to try and
hit you off. One way to beat him is to use regular arrows with Link and hit him, then
quickly dive into the water as Zora Link and punch him. An easier way is to just dive in with 
Zora Link and use boomerangs to stun him, then hit him. After a while, he might summon some
help to make things harder. Good thing you brought 4 faries, right? Beat him in 8-10 Zora
Link punches, and grab his mask and heart container.

Also, if you have all the faries, you can get double defense, but I was missing serveral 
of them, so I didn't bother going back to look. Maybe another time...

Chapter 15: Arachnophobia (Optional)
------------------------------------

More spider hunting for another semi-useless item. The second set of 30 spiders can be found
In an empty house on the first Great Bay Map. Blow open the wall and slide down the passage
to start another annoying quest.

The first 3 spiders are in the first room. 2 are in the small tunnel that leads down to the
door. Use the Hookshot to kill them. A 3rd is on the ceiling. Shoot the web in front of him 
with a fire arrow, then hit him with the Hookshot. Use the Hookshot to get over the fence, 
and go through the door. There is a one on the wall in here, by the stairs. Also, there is
one in one of the pots that Goron Link can get out by smashing the ground next to it. Jump
up on the rail, and use the hookshot to get one crawling on a beam of wood high up by where
you came in. Number 7 is also in a pot in the corner, might take a few tries to get him out.
There is another in a big pot at the bottom of the stairs, as well as one crawling across the 
wooden beam on the wall at the bottom of the stairs. The 10th is in a normal-sized pot that
is atop some boxes. There is another on the wall that will crawl under one of the masks on 
the wall, then out. the 12th one is in a hole in the wall behind a web. Use the Hookshot.
Go back up the stairs and take the door on the right to get to the library type area. There
are 2 behind one of the bookshelves against a wall. Just push it over. There is also another
one behind a picture on the wall. There is another in a hole in the wall, found after you 
pull a dresser away from it. Number 17 is on top of a bookshelf in a corner of the room. Use
the Hookshot to get it. Number 18 is in a hole in the wall behind a painting. You'll need to
climb the bookself on the side of the room like a ladder (look for the section with no books)
to get level enough with the hole and use the Hookshot. Another is climbing on the wooden
beam at the WAY top of the room against the wall. Shoot him with the Hookshot from the top
of the bookshelves. Now go back down the stairs in the previous room and take the first door
you come to. Number 20 is behind a painting on the left wall. There is also one on the
wooden beam above the door. There are 3 on the ceiling, but they are blocked by a cage like
chandellier. You can send them crashing down by doing a Goron Stomp on the table. The 25th
one is in a pot in the corner, use Goron Link once again. You can shoot the skulls on the
wall in a certain order to get a heart piece, but I don't know how to figure this order out,
other than trial an error. I Just shot different ones until I heard a "wrong" buzzer, than
shot the ones i had right before and tried a different. You will need to shoot 6 or so. After
you are done with that, goto the final room in this place, which is down the hall and around
the corner from the one you are in now. First one is behind a web on the ceiling. Burn it up
with a fire arrow. Next 2 are behind boxes that can be punched with Goron Link. Look carefully
and you will see the difference between those ones and the ones that can't be punched. The
next is on the wall behind those weird wooden object in the back. Finally, the last one is
in a barrel above everything else. Climb up the boxes next to the door and use the Hookshot
to get to a barrel. What you thought was the ceiling really wasn't, and there are lots of 
barrels to smash up there. When you are done, go back outside and talk to the guy. If you are
still on day one, you will get an item that lets you hold 500 rupees at once. You might also
need to have over 500 stored in the bank. If you get 20 rupees, try once again after you have
the money in the bank and can do it entirely on day one.

Chapter 16: Side Quests and Other Lose Ends (Optional)
------------------------------------------------------

The Deku trading game consists of brining the tear drop to the Deku in Clock Town, then the
map he gives you to other Deku. Take his map to the Deku in the swap by the first witch hut.
Talk to the Deku as link and get the next. Take that one to the Deku outside Goron Village
as Deku Link. Take the map he gives you to the Deku inside a house at the Zora Hole for
another map. You will need the Garo mask to trade the last map. Win the Garo mask at the
horse races on the ranch on Milk Road. Just ride Epona into the ranch, and pay 10 rupees to
race against the 2 guys who are there. Wear it, and look for a hooded figure on the cliff by
the graveyard area. He will make a tree you can use your Hookshot to grab onto, and you can
get to the last Deku as Zora Link. Go down the path, watching for rocks and rogue Goron. when
you get to the Ikana area, walk along the ledge without going in the water and you will be
attacked by a robed-figure. He is an easy kill. Continue on and you will find the last Deku,
and get a 200 rupee bonus. There are heart container pieces after each of these Deku.

The 5th Bottle can be gotten in the Great Bay area, on the map where the entrance to the 
Zora Hole is. There is a cave to goto above the waterfall in that area, the one where you
got a heart piece for killing the monster at the bottom. To get to the top, you must back
track to the part where there is what looks to be a dead branch on the beach. Jump on that,
and look for a small tree above to shoot with the hookshot. Shoot the next tree, and so on
until you get to the cave. You will need to go through beaver races where you have 2 minutes
to go through 20 rings as Zora Link. When you complete that race, you will have 25 rings on
a different course to go through. After that race, you are awarded the 5th Bottle Item. 

Around the Ikana Graveyard and the hooded guy on the cliff, there is a circle of stones.
Look at this circle with the Lens of Truth and you will see an injured warrior. Bring him
medicine to help him recover, and he will give you the Stone Coro Mask as a prize.

Chapter 17: Negotiations with the Underworld
--------------------------------------------

For this part, you will need the following items: 5 magic beans, a blue potion, a fish, milk,
10 Deku nuts, and a ghost in a bottle. Blue potions can be bought from the deku trader found
on the Ikana road. Milk can be bought at the ranch on Milk Road (not the Romani ranch). A
ghost in a bottle can be caught on day 3 in the graveyard, but that might be a little late. 
Another ghost can be caught somewhere during this quest, so have a spare empty bottle. A 
fish can be caught in any place that has shallow water and little fish floating around in it 
(no, they aren't just there for the background).

Go up the path to Ikana (past the graveyard, the place where you did the last Deku trade).
Head over to the stream when you get there, and freeze the 2 octopus monsters with ice
arrows to get across. Hookshot from that platform over to another, then to another across 
the way, then to the top of the mountain. Hit the owl statue here with your sword so you
will beable to come back whenever you want. 

Work your way up the hill, walking up the dried up river bed. Try to run past the mummies
before they freeze you. When you go in the cave at the top, a ghost will appear and cause
you to be damaged every second. Play the song of Storms, which will clear out the poison,
destroy all the mummies, and make the river flow again.

Go back out and run down to the house with the horn sticking out of it's roof. The girl 
sitting outside should run inside and lock the door. Climb up the ramp a little bit away
and wait for her to leave. Run inside when she is far away enough, and open the closet in
the basement. When the mummy comes out, play the song of healing, and you will get the
Gibudo Mask after it falls off the man's face. He will be reunited with his daughter.

Wear the mask, and go up the ramps by the musical house. Look for a huge hole in the ground,
and when you find it, hop down. The first mummy on the right in this area wants the 5 magic
beans. give them to him, and go through the door. Find the mummy in the next room who wants
10 Deku nuts. Give them to him, and proceed on. In the next room, one mummy wants 10 bombs.
If you don't have the ghost, you can get one by fighting a Poe in the room after the 10 bomb
guy. It will take 5 arrows to kill the Poe. Get the Poe and go back to the Deku Nut mummy.
Give the other one in that room a big poe to pass. The next mummy will want fish, followed
by one who wants the bugs in a bottle, and finally one who wants the milk. After that, you 
will be in a room with 4 torches. Light them all with fire arrows and a chest containing the 
Mirror Shield will appear. Don't leave yet, unless you need to get a big bomb. Continued in
the next chapter.

Chapter 18: Sunshine on the Illusions of Ikana
----------------------------------------------

Make sure you have a big bomb, and a fairy or two for this section. Some of the monsters can
really suck your health off, especally the floating hands and the mummies, if you dont wear
the mummy mask. Wearing the mask will make them dance and not bother you at all.

Use the shield to reflect light onto the sun symbol until a ladder appears. Then do it again
and a passage will open up. Take the passage back outside and climb up the stairs to be in
another section of Ikana. Go around the pillars and enter the door here. Go left in the 
first room. In order to open that door, you need to hit the frozen eye on the pillar with 
a fire arrow. There is a frozen eye for both doors, you you want the left one. In the next 
room, hit the switch then run across the room with the Bunny Hood. Wait till the ceiling 
falls, then hit the switch on the other side as Deku Link, use the closest flower launcher,
and launch up to hit the switch. Change back to regular Link to activate it. In the room
with the switch in the corner, kill the spiders with arrows first, and Hookshot the steel
balls so they explode, then launcher over to the switch, and Bunny jump back to the door.
To get back, you will need to jump to the platform closest to you, then again to the door.
Finally, launch over to the far door. When you get outside again, jump on the walls and look
for a Deku launcher. Launch over to the switch, hit it, then go back to the wall. You can 
get a heart piece here by hitting the silver switch with the Hookshot or an arrow, then
launching over the pillar where the flames were as Deku Link.

Jump back down and enter again, back to the room where you had to melt the eyes with the 
fire arrow. You need to wait for day time, and goto the right room. Shine light onto the
sun emblem with your shield and continue on. If you have trouble with the hand monster, you
can shine light on him to destroy him. If he flies over to you, Block him with your shield, 
but if a mini-hand grabs onto you, it will grow. In the next room, you get to fight a mini
boss just like the one in the second dungeon. This time he will take a few more hits, and 
he will spit fire rather than ice. Not too tough, but I won't explain how to beat him since 
you should already know. One thing though, watch out for the fire he shoots at you, beacause
sometimes a spark might fly off and hit you.

After you beat him, climb up the stairs and onto the roof of this place. Walk over to where
the huge crater-type thing with the green arrow point is, and put a big bomb on the arrow.
Jump down the hole, and you will be back in the first room, with sunlight shining down 
through the roof. Use the shield to reflect it onto the icon, and go foward to fight a boss.

Boss: The 3 Guardians of Ikana

There will be a skeleton sitting in the char at the top of the steps, and 2 on the floor 
that will try and attack you. 2 hits with the level 3 sword will temporarily knock out
the ones on the floor, but they block well. The one in the chair will kick you down if you
try to rush up to him. First thing to do is shoot the curtains with a fire arrow. Then 
knock down the 2 skeletons and shine light on their corpse.

If you want to have some fun, you can put on the Buruu Face, and the skeletons will start to
follow you when you play the ocarina, which can also be helpful. When they are dead, the big
one will stand up and attack. Block his sword swipes with your shield and counter. If he
starts to spit dust, back away or hit him and he will stop. When he falls over, shine light
on his corpse as well. You will learn the Mekagera's Elegy Song. This song will create an
image of Link, so it will be useful for hitting switches.

Chapter 19: Time to Scale Rockvale
----------------------------------

Now that you can make images of Link, go up to Rockvale, which is a bit north of the musical
house. Jump across the 3 blocks and you will get to a switch that will move the blocks, but
only while you are on it. Play the Mekagera's Elegy to make an image to hit the switch for 
you. Hookshot up to the next platform, and watch out for the laser eye. Turn into Zora Link
and make an image on the switch there. Hookshot up to the next platform, Turn into Goron
Link, and make an image there. Turn back into regular link and jump across. 

Hit all 3 switches to reset the blocks, then Hookshot up to the next ledge. Make an image on
the switch there, it might be easy to miss, but look around until you find it. Climb up the
Hookshot post (By hitting it high with the Hookshot) and Hookshot up to the next ledge. 
Watch out for the laser eye. Make an image on the switch that is there. It might be hard to
see at first. Hookshot up to the next ledge and make an image on the switch that is there.
Jump across the 3 blocks, then hit the 3 switches to reset them once again.

Hookshot up to the next ledge, and watch out for the 2 rocks that will roll in a path. Also
watch out for flaming bats. If you fall down, you will need to start over. Walk to the edge
of that platform and Hookshot up to the next. From there, Hookshot up to the last platform.

On this platform is an owl statue. Hit it so you can come back here without having to do the
first part over. Make images on the last 3 switches, and enter the mouth of the strange 
creature carved into the moutainside. 

Chapter 20: Maze of the Inverted Ruins
--------------------------------------

In the first room, take the door on the left to get to a room with 4 switches. Find the wall
with cracks in it, and plant a bomb to make it blow up. Use Goron Link to get the crates 
from there and place them on a switch. Also use Goron Link and his image to hit the biggest
of the 4 switches. When you hit the last one, go past the grate that was blocking your way
before. Put a bomb on the light square you see on the floor to make light shine down below,
then make a right turn down to a lower level of the cave. Shine your shield on the sun block
in here and walk across the lava with Goron Link to get the map.

Punch all the statues in this room with Goron Link, and if they come to life, hit em again
and get out of their way before they blow up. When they are all dead, a chest containing a
key will appear. Take this key back upstairs, and go through the locked door in that room.

In the next room, there is a key in a chest on the side ledge. After you get that, Dive down
and go through the hallway into a bigger room. Jump up onto the pathway in the middle and use
Link's shield to reflect light onto the mirror. Reflect it so that the mirror absorbs the
light (the mirron will flash, not reflect it) for about 5 seconds, then when you stop, the
mirror should shoot a beam of light. Run over and reflect it onto the sun block to get the
compass.

The door behind that sun block leads back to the first room. Go back to where the mirror is
and cross the little pathway to a locked door (you got the key recently). In the next room,
punch away the pillar in the middle with Goron Link. Use the same technique you did before
with the mirror to get rid of the sun block against the right wall. There is a chest there
containing a fairy.

Next part can be annoying. You havta reflect the light onto one mirror for a really long
period of time, then reflect the light that one gives off onto another mirror, and then 
finaly the light that one gives off onto the sun block. The black bug monsters in the room
will keep regerating to make things more difficult as well. You can block them with your 
shield to buy time. Go through the door when you finish.

Launch up with Deku Link in the next room, and guide him to the guests of air to extend
the time you can glide for. There is a chest near the start of the glide that has a 
fairy, on the platform with rupees. There is a chest on fire that has a fairy in it, 
and I think you need to roll across the lava and hit the switch with Goron Link for it
to open. Not too sure. In the next room, you'll fight a mini-boss.

This boss can't hit you as long as you are blocking, but you will never seem to beable to 
hit him either. When he leaps at you, move out of the way and he will dissapear, then come
down on your head. Take a short step away when he comes down and slash him. Eventually, he
will escape, and a chest containing the Light Arrows will appear. Go through the door and
jump up onto the beam to get across. There is a masked bug in the way, but you can take
him out easily with a bomb and a slash. Just block him with the shield until the bomb goes
off. In the next room, there is an eye creature to fight. Just block his attacks and hit him
in the eye with an arrow when it is yellow (right after you block his attack). It Helps alot
if you Z-target him. You will be back in the first room after this, and can go back in time
if you want. You won't lose the map or compass, and everything else of importance that you 
have done (except the faries) has already been taken care of and is not needed to be done
again.

Either way, next thing to do is go back outside, and jump over to the block closest to the
dungeon. Shoot a light arrow at the red gem on the wall and the dungeon will flip over.

Go back in and take the door on the right first. Shoot the sun block with a light arrow, then
Glide across, then turn and hit the frozen eye with a fire arrow. Hookshot up to the chest
that appears for a fairy. There is another fairy you can get by hitting the sun emblem in the
first room and opening a chest.

In the room on the right, use Deku link and get launched by the air hole on the right. Fly
up to a platform, then Glide over the the little walkway in the middle of the room. Kill
the masked rat, and walk through a hallway until you see a switch. Hit it, then go back
and grab the chest that appears for a key. Take the other air hole on the left to launch up
to a locked door. In this room, shoot the gem to turn right-side up, then walk to the little
platform in the lava and shoot it again. Walk through the door.

You must do the same general thing in the next room. Reverse the room, then push the block
over a few squares so it will fall in the middle-right, turn it back, then push the block 
over to the other side of the room, Reverse, push it as far as it will go agaisnt the
slightly raised floor, reverse, then push it on the switch and jump up to the door.

In the next room, you need to fight the game's favorite wizard mini-boss again. Let him have
it, then Hookshot up to the chest that appears and go through the door. Launch across the
next room with Deku Link, and bottle a poe if you really need it. In the next room, make the
spiked balls bash each other with the Hookshot, then glise across to the middle section, and
Hookshot the chest on the ceiling by the door. Run past the blue skulls, trying not to get
hit, beacause they will lock out your sword. 

The next room has a combination vampire bat/grim reaper mini-boss. He can take off your life
very very quickly if you aren't careful. You need to hit him with a light arrow to get rid
of some of the bats, then slash him with your sword. His attacks are very hard to dodge, try
wearing the bunny mask or using backflips. When you beat him you will get the boss key.

Go back 3 rooms, to the room with the poes. Use Deku Link right when you enter (coming from
the mini-boss) and go left to a gap in the wall. Run past all the knights and hit a switch
to make a chest containing a key appear. Get it, then go back towards the mini-boss 1 room.
Right when you enter, look to your right and follow the path. Hit the switch and Hookshot 
the chest that appears. Follow that path and unlock the locked door.

Defeat the giant eye monster in the next room, just like the last one you killed, then get
the chest he leaves for a new mask that you can't seem to use. In the next room, Hit the 
switch, and Hookshot to the chest that appears. Hit the Hookshot target on the ceiling to 
get over the spinning spiked bar, and enter the door. Jump down the pit.

Boss: Twin Mold

Use the mask when the fight starts and you will become giant. This is a pretty easy, but 
cool nonetheless fight, as long as you have some magic refills with you. I recomend bringing
2 or 3 magic refills, and some faries. You can just bring all blue potions if you want, too.
Back to the boss, you'll need to slash either of them as Giant Link in the head or the tail.
4-6 slashes will kill each one. If you run out of magic, you can try to find some in the
desert using the Bunny Hood or Goron Link to stay ahead of the molds, but it is very hard
to find a magic vial. Also, don't accidently wander too far from the middle or you will be
kicked outside back to the entrance of the upside-down Rockvale Dungeon. When you win, you 
can grab the last guardian mask, as well as another heart container.

Getting all the fairies for this dungeon and brining them back to the fairy spring by the
musical house will get you a powerful 2-handed sword. You cannot use your shield if you are
using this sword though, so only use it when you know you won't need to defend, especally 
since the Mirror Shield is several times more powerful than the first and can block almost
anything within reason.

Chapter 21: Mysteries in the World of Talmina (Optional)
--------------------------------------------------------

This chapter will cover anything else not covered in chapter 16 that is important. You 
can skip ahead to the final chapter if you think you are ready.

Back by the Clock Town Observatory, there is a scarecrow named Pierre. Talking to him 
can skip ahead in time, just like the hidden ocarina song. If you pull out your ocarina
in front of him, and play a tune, it will become a song. Be sure to remember what you 
played, beacause it won't be listed with the rest of your songs. 

By Milk Road there is a bird that will steal items from you, including your sword and your
bottles. You can follow it and kill it to get the items back, or you can simply travel back
to day 1 and you will have them again. Killing the bird gets you 100 rupees. If it gets away,
you can try looking in certain stores around town. Maybe the guy there will have found it 
and will sell it back..

The sixth and final bottle can be picked up by going through a series of events in Clock 
Town using a few different masks. Goto the inn on the first day, and wait till between 
1:00 pm and 2:00 pm for the mail man to walk through. Put on the Cafe Mask and talk to the 
girl behind the counter. Then come back after 11:00 pm using Deku Link. Wait in the kitchen 
until after 12:00 and then talk to the lady to get a letter. Mail the letter in the box 
outside, and wait until the mail man picks it up the next day. Follow him to the house
by the stream, and go inside. Get another letter from the boy there, (who is named Cafe) and 
give it to the girl at the inn. On the 3rd day, wait until 6:00 pm and go back to the house 
by the stream. Get another letter from the man inside, and give it to the fat lady who gave 
you the Cafe Mask (and is also wearing it) to get the last bottle, filled up with an item that
will give you unlimited magic for a limited time when you drink it. You can also get this 
shadowy milk by wearing the Romani mask to get in the Milk Bar really late and paying 200 
rupees for it.

More masks. You can get the Explosion Mask by going to the northern section of town around 
0:00 on the first day and preventing the robbery that takes place by slashing the burgler 
with  your sword before he escapes. You can then get the Staying up Late Mask after you stop 
this robber by going to the mani shop on the 3rd night and buying it for 500 rupees.

To get the Keaton mask, follow the same steps to get the 6th bottle. Wait in Cafe's house for
the mail man to come back and he will give you a pendant. Give that to the lady in the inn, 
then wait till the 3rd day and go back to Cafe's house at various times until the man there
gives you the mask, as well as something else.

Take the other gift you got from the Cafe's father and wait for the mailman to get to the
post office on the same 3rd day. Give it to him, then follow him to the milk bar and wait
for him to deliver the gift. Go outside and talk to him to get the Post Hat (or mailman mask).

Before you go back in time, there is one more mask to get. For this one, you cannot have 
stopped the burgler (at least this time around) and must have gotten the keaton mask this
time around. Goto Ikana, and find Cafe hiding between some rocks. Talk to him and then go to
hide too, and wait for the burgler to show up and enter a secret cave. If the burgler sees
you, he will run back down the cliff and will not open the secret door. Follow him, and
help cafe get the sun mask by solving the puzzles fast. Go back to the inn, and enter the
first door in front of the stairs, then wait for the last minute to get another mask (Meoto 
Face). You can wear this mask once you go back in the mayor's office to get a heart piece.
As it turns out, Cafe was engaged to the red-haried girl at the inn (Anjyu) but he stole a
mask from the mask collector, and was turned into a little boy as the punishment. Helping
him get this mask back on the third day will result in a slightly different ending.

You can get another mask by going to the milk bar with the Romani mask on late in the first
day. Talk to the man who is shaped like an egg, then stand under the right light on the 
stage (which might take a while to find) and play the song that the man taught you. Play
it with regular Link, then Deku Link, then Goron Link, and finally Zora link to get the
mask. if it doesn't work, try a different light. You will get the Chairman's Mask.

You can get an upgrade to 30 bombs on the 3rd day. Goto the bomb shop in town and pay 100
rupees to the guy at the bottom of the stairs. You can get an upgrade to 40 bombs from a
Deku trader for 200 rupees.

You can use the Keaton Mask to find Keatons hidden in the grass that moves in Milk Road and
Clock Town. The Keaton will ask you several questions in japanese. Answer 5 correctly to 
get prizes. Some answers can be found at:
http://www.geocities.com/Timessquare/lair/2382/Keaton.jpg

Before you fight the last bosses, it might help to have some more arrows. Take the path
south of Clock Town on the world map (That would normally lead to the witches, Deku Village, 
etc) but turn before you get to the marsh area. There is a house here that has an arrow
shooting game you can play. If you get an almost perfect score, you will get an upgrade
for your arrows, and if you do it a second time, you will get a peice of heart.

Chapter 22: Majora's Mask
-------------------------

When you are good and ready, and if you have all the guardian masks, make your way to the
clock tower in Clock Town at 0:00 on the last day. Engage in battle with Stalkid, and play
the song you learned when you beat the first of the guardians. After a small scene, the 
Mask of Majora will reject Stalkid and beam itself into the eye of the moon. Since the 
guardians cannot hold back the moon any longer, Link decides to follow. If you have all the
normal masks at this point, you might beable to get the last special mask as well. Read on.

This world consists of a tree with several kids running around. Each one is wearing the mask
of a guardian. I'm not too sure how it works, but you can give away your masks to the kids to
be teleported to one of several small cave areas. If you go back in time, you will gain back
whatever masks you gave away. I have seen a few of these areas so far but not all.

The first consists of several flower launchers, a few spinning on branches in the middle of 
a huge pit. If you work your way over to the corners, one has a heart container piece, and 
the other has a door that leads to the kid who brought you here. You can give him more masks
to leave, but im not sure how this works either. It may or may not effect other events. (2 
Masks Lost)

The second consists of high speed underwater tunnels where you are given choices of paths.
At the end of the path, you will either get to a gossip stone, a door leading to the kid, or
maybe a heart piece (which I have not found yet). If you get to the kid, yet don't want to
be teleported out, just jump back into the water with Goron Link. You can always leave by
the blue teleporter at the begining of the area. (4 Masks Lost)

The third area consists of many ramps for Goron Link to roll over. There is a trick to it. 
If you roll completly straight from the exact middle of the first runway, then let go of the
analog stick just as you land from the jump, you will bounce off the chests, and automatically
roll up the next ramp. You will keep bouncing and rolling automatically, but you will fall 
into a pit when you get to the 2 green pots containing more magic vials. Stop at this point,
and try exploring by walking. I have found nothing here, but the kid with the mask. (6 Masks
Lost)

Go to the last kid when you get out, and give him masks. You will be transported to the last
little mini-dungeon. Find the kid and give him the last of your regular masks. You should
be teleported out, and none of the kids will be there except the one against the tree.
(8 Masks Lost, None Left)

When you are ready, talk to the kid resting against the huge tree who is wearing Majora's 
Mask. You will be transported to a huge room, where each of the guardian masks will fly from
your hands to the wall. Then, the eyes of Majora's Mask will glow and pop out with a look of 
insanity. It would be a good idea to wear the Bunny Hood for the following fights, if you 
didn't give it away to one of the kids in the previous area. If you gave all your masks away,
and had the max possible number, you should recieve the 4th special mask, which will allow
you to turn into a sky blue adult Link. I have not tried this yet, as in my most recent save
I don't have all the masks, but the word is out there that it works. As Adult Link, you have
a new sword that can fire magic when it slashes. Many people complain, beacause with Adult
Link, there is almost no way you can lose. You could probably even beat it with only 3 hearts
in that form, so if you don't want to basically automatically win, fight it without getting
the final mask.

Boss: Majora's Mask

You will need to hit the mask in the back, as it floats or spins about, then slash it again 
while it is stunned. In order to do this, you can either try your luck with arrows, or wait
till it dives down to spin across the room and hit it with a spin attack when it gets close.
I usually wait for it to do so, and charge up a spin attack, hoping it will come down right
above my head to garentee a hit. Conserving arrows is a good idea, beacause you will only 
have whatever number you had when you entered, plus 1 set under a jar. After a few hits, the
guardian masks will fly off the wall and attack too. They will shoot sparks down at you. They
each take 2-3 hits to kill, the only way being arrows. Sometimes you can shoot one once and 
slash it before it can fly back up again for an easy kill. Try to keep your eye on the Mask
of Majora at all times though, beacause it has a new laser attack at this point. While you
are fighting off the guardian masks, just Z-target it and use your shield to block the laser.
When all the other masks are gone, you can take the target off, and reflect the laser back to
try and light it on fire. Patience is the key here, as it uses the laser attack alot and 
dives for a spin less. Be patient, and save the arrows you have left. A few more hits and it
will burst into flames... and then mutate.

Boss: Majora's Mask

The next form will dance across the room in various ways. Z-target it and try to stay back. 
Never fire anything at it, or try to rush up and hit it. Wait for it to come to you before 
you slash. The easiest way to hit it is to wait for it to do the moonwalk type move and hit
it beacause it is semi-defenseless and wont spin away until it is done moonwalking. It has
an attack that it might do occasionally where it throws several sparks at you. Just try to
Z-target it and leap around in circles when it does. When you score a hit, you can hit it 
a few times while it cries out in pain, and if you keep slashing and time it right, you 
will hit it again when it recovers and tries to spin away. With luck, you can hit it once 
and not give it the chance to attack again. After maybe 5-9 hits, it will change again.

Boss: The Magic Emperor of Majora

This form is difficult if you don't know what to do. It will spin away or jump away if you 
get too close, and whip at you with it's tentacles. At first, you can use Goron Link to
spin around the room, then ram into it, But eventually it will move faster and whip at a
longer range. NEVER Z-target it and try to close in for a slash; it will just whip you and
jump away. The easiest way to end this battle is to try and save as many arrows as you can
for this part. If you used 12 arrows to kill the guardian masks, you can have 18 + 30 arrows
left over for this fight, to make things much easier. Hit it with an arrow when you find an
opening, then run up and slash it around a few times. Magic potions are almost useless, so 
use all the bottles you have on either fairies or life potions. Don't give up too first, it
is definatly a cool boss, but not very hard if you have the right stuff. When it is injured,
it will dodge your arrows. Shoot once, then when it lands from it's jump, shoot again. When
the spiked objects dart around the room, you know it's almost dead. Good luck!

Chapter 23: Finale
------------------

The Ending will be different if you have more masks. For each mask you see in the ending, it
means you are missing that mask and will not see that part. There might be one little section
to see for each of the masks, which are now all listed in the mask section, except for the
one in the bottom right corner.


III.

Items
-----

Log Book - Blow up the wall in the sewer that leads to the observatory, get the rupees, and
           the kid outside will give it to you. It will keep track of all the important people
           you meet, and the events you do that relate to them. Even if you haven't finished
           an event, it will be listed so it gives hints on when you are doing something that
           is important. The Log Book is really called Notebook from the Bombers Members, but
           I will refer to it as the Log Book.

Money Safe - Carry 200 rupees at once. Give the banker on the left side of town 200 or more
             rupees.

Giant Safe - Kill the 30 golden spiders in the 2nd golden spider game. Now you can carry 500
               rupees at once.

Bomb Bag - Will let you carry more bombs. Bought in a store on the left side of Clock Town.

Bow - Defeat the first mini-boss in the first dungeon.

Fire Arrows - Defeat the first mini-boss in Snowhead's cave.

Ice Arrows - Defeat the mini-boss in the Great Bay dungeon.

Light Arrows - Defeat the mini-boss in the Rockvale dungeon.

Hookshot - Found in the fortress of the pirates.

Lens of Truth - Follow the owl's feathers across the platforms in the Goron village.

Big Bomb - Bought from the big Goron by Goron Village for 100 rupees after you do his time
            bomb test and open the Goron races.

Magic Beans - Can either be bought from the Deku by the first witch hut, or the monster that
              lives in the hole under the Deku Maze.

Camera - The witch will give this to you after you save her and go back to her hut (not the 
         potion selling witch, the other one. They live in different huts).

Mirror Shield - Get it while trading with the mummies.

Mushroom - Sniff them out in the marsh areas with the pig mask

Milk - Heals a few hearts. Bought for 50 rupees from the guys at the ranch on Milk Road.

Green Potion - Will refil your magic to full. Bought at several shops in the world of Talmina.

Red Potion - Heals your life to full. Bought at several shops as well.

Blue Potion - Heals life and magic. Give the mushrooms to the potion-selling witch, or buy it
              for 100 rupees from the Deku trader in Ikana.

Fairy - It will heal you to full when you die. Very useful. You can find one under many pots
        and bushes, and there is at least one by the owl statue at the entrance to each of 
        the 4 dungeons.

Shadowy Milk - Gives you unlimited magic for a set period of time. Bought for 200 rupees late
               at night in the Milk Bar with the Cow mask.

Fish - Can be caught at several places where there is water by looking carefully to see if 
       they are there, then using a bottle to grab them.

Bugs - Can be found in several caves or under rocks. 

Big Poe - Found by defeating a big poe, found in the graveyard or cave with the trading
          mummies.

Small Poe - Found by defeating a small poe.

Tadpole Eggs - Found in the pirate's fortress and the eel crater. Used to get Bossanova of the
               Sea's Roar song.

Masks (In order from top left to bottom right)
----------------------------------------------

Post Hat - Go through the events mentioned in chapter 21 to get it.

Staying Up Late Face (Yofukashi Otsura) - Stop the burgler at 0:00 on day 1, then buy it for 
                                          500 rupees on day 3 from the Mani shop.

Explosion Face (Bakuretsu Otsura) - Stop the burgler at 0:00 on day 1 by slashing him with 
                                    your sword. You can blow yourself up with it.

Rock Monster Face (Ishikoro Otsura) - Use the Lens of Truth by the Ikana graveyad and give 
                                       some medicine to the injured soldier you see.

Big Fiary Mask (Daiyousei no Kamen) - Return the lone fairy found in Clock Town at night to
                                      the spring in Clock Town. This will cause faries in 
                                      dungeons to fly towards Link. 

Deku Nuts' Mask (Deku Nuts no Kamen) - You automatically get it when you return to the mask
                                      collector on day 1 for the second time. Changes Link 
                                      into Deku Link, one of the 3 transformation masks.

Keaton's Face (Kiiton no Otsura) - Go through the events in chapter 21 to get it. You can use
                                   the Keaton's Face to talk to the grass that runs away from
                                   you in Clock Town and Milk Road.

Buruu Face (Buruu Tsura) - Talk to the old man with the music box in Clock Town at night. He
                           is found by the stream. 

Usagi Zukin (Bunny Hood) - Round up the chicks on day 3 in the shed in the back of the Romani
                           Ranch using the Buruu Face.

Ribbit's Face (Gero no Otsura) - Give the meat found in the Goron Village to the Goron with
                                 the frog on it's head. It will let you talk to frogs.

Mister Pig's Face (Buusan no Otsura) - Chase the Deku Prime Minister through the mini mase on 
                                       the side of the Deku Nuts Kingdom after rescuing the
                                       Deku princess. Will allow you to find mushrooms.

Goron's Mask (Goron no Kamen) - Use the Lens of Truth outside the cave where you got it and
                                follow the ghostly Goron. Climb up the wall when you get to
                                it using the Lens still, then talk to him in the cave and play
                                the Song of Healing. It will allow you to transform into
                                Goron Link.

Romani's Face (Romanii no Otsura) - Complete the poe sidequests on the Romani Ranch on day
                                    1 and 2. It can be used to get into the Milk Bar.

Chairman Face (Zachou Otsura) - Play the songs under the light in the Milk Bar for the man 
                                who is shaped like an egg.

Cafe Face (Cafe Otsura) - Given to you by the fat lady in one of the buildings on the east 
                          side of town.

Loving Face (Meoto no Tsura) - Go through the events in chapter 21 to get it.

Truth Face (Makoto no Otsura) - Find and destroy the first 30 golden spiders. It will allow
                                you to talk to animals and gossip stones.

Zora's Mask (Zora no Kamen) - Push the beached Zora over to land, then talk to him and play
                              the Song of Healing for him. It will allow you to transform 
                              into Zora Link.

Kamaro's Mask (Kamaro no Otsura) - Play the Song of healing for the guy doing the snake
                                   dance on the mushroom structures by Clock Town.

Mummy's Face (Gibudo no Otsura) - Play Song of Healing for the mummy in the closet
                                  of the musical house (see chapter 17).

Garo's Face (Garo no Otsura) - Defeat the milk-selling guy in a horse race by riding into his
                               ranch on Milk Road with Epona.

Captain's Hat (Taichou no Boushi) - Defeat the big skeleton in the graveyard and open the 
                                    chest on the roof. Will let you communicate with 
                                    skeletons.

Giant's Mask (Kyojin no Kamen) - Find it in the room before the boss of dungeon 4. Use it to
                                 fight the bosses (Twin Mold). 

Fierce God's Mask (Onigami no Kamen) - Complete all the mini dungeons before the final battle 
                                       (see chapter 22 for details). You will need all 20 of 
                                       the other regular masks (not including the Deku Nuts 
                                       Mask, Goron Mask, and Zora Mask). This mask will turn
                                       you into adult Link to combat the final bosses.


Song List
---------

Song of Time (Toki no Uta) - Learned automatically when you get the ocarina. Use it to go back
                             in time to day 1 and save.

Song of Healing (Iyashi no Uta) - Learned when you get the Deku Mask from the mask collector.

Song of Epona (Epona no Uta) - Learned by going to the Romani Ranch on the first day and 
                               speaking with the little girl. Complete her mini-game.

Song of the Big Wind (Daiyoku no Uta) - Learned from the owl above the waterfall by the Deku 
                                        Nuts Kingdom. Use it to Fly away to the different owl
                                        statues.

Song of the Storms (Arashi no Uta) - Learned on the first night by speaking to the skeletons
                                     in the graveyard and defeating the axe knight. Will make
                                     it rain when you play it.

Awake Sanata (Mezame no Sanata) - Learned from the captive monkey in the Deku Nuts Kingdom.

Goron Lulliby - Learned from the old frozen Goron and the crying baby Goron.

Bossanova of the Sea's Roar (Shiosai no Bossanova) - Learned by the tadpoles in the lab by 
                                                     the sea, once you have all 7 eggs.

Mekegara's Elegy - Learned from the skeleton guardians of Ikana. Used to make an image of
                   Link. Can be used once with each transformation mask, but using it a 
                   second time will cause the first one to vanish.

Order to Vow (Chigai no Goorei) - The song you learn after completing the first dungeon.
                                  Play it when you meet Stalkid in battle.
 
Song of Time Compression (Toki no Kasane Uta) - A secret song that will warp you ahead 12 
                                                hours. See the hidden tips section.

Song of Time Reversion (Toki no Sakasa Uta) - Another secret song that will slow time down to
                                              1/2 or 1/3 of it's normal rate. See the hidden
                                              tips section, 

IV.

Heart Container Pieces
----------------------

Some of these haven't been confirmed yet. e-mail me if you find more.

1.  In the north section of Clock Town. Climb up the slide with Deku Link or Regular Link,
    then jump across to the block, then to the tree. You can also climb up using the blocks
    on the other side of the slide and regular Link.

2.  Goto the observatory and get the Tear, then trade it to the Deku trader in the middle
    section of Clock Town. Use the launcher to get up onto the Clock Tower ledge where the
    piece of heart is.

3.  Take the brown map given to you by trading the Deku in Clock Town the Tear, and bring it
    to a similar Deku in the marsh area by the hut with the camera guy. Use the launcher to
    get on the roof of the hut, and grab it.

4.  Show a picture of the Deku Nut Chief to the camera guy in the hut in the marsh area.

5.  By one of the holes in the Deku Nut Kingdom mazes.

6.  Talk to the the dancing twin girls at night on the left side of Clock Town with the Kamaro
    mask.

7.  Goto the waterfall near the second map of Great Bay with Zora Link, and dive down and kill
    the shield-eatting monster that lives down there. Watch out for the skeleton fish.

8.  In the underwater part in the pirate's fortress. Hit the switch with an arrow to open the
    door, then rush down to get there before it closes again.

9.  Climb a tree near the enterance to the swamp area.

10. In a chest in the snowy Death Mountain area that was snowed over before completing the 
    Snowhead's dungeon. It is on the map with the rope bridges, and you will need the Zora
    Mask to get it, as it is now under water. 

11. Talk to the skeletons in the Ikana graveyard with the skull mask on night 2 and use the
    Lens of truth in the hole. You will need to defeat an Axe Knight mini-boss.     

12. On a bookshelf in the Zora Hole. You will need to use a launcher to get it, and to use 
    that launcher, you need to go through the map trading with the Deku Salesmen. 

13. On a ledge outside Goron Village. You will need to use a launcher to get it, and to use
    that launcher, you need to go through the map trading with the Deku Salesmen.

14. On a ledge around Ikana area. You will need to use a launcher to get it, and to use
    that launcher, you need to go through the map trading with the Deku Salesmen.

15. Near Milk road, walk around in the tall grass by the bird that steals your items until 
    you find a hidden hole.

16. In the second 30 spider game, shoot coloured faces in right order. The right order varies
    each time, and you can usually find it through trial and error.

17. Near the path leading up to Death Moutain. Look for a hole under the huge mushroom shaped
    structures and kill the fire-breathing lizards inside.

18. Use the ribbit's face and, talk to the 5 frogs found in Clock town, Death Mountain, 
    the Marsh, and the first and third dungeons. The Death Moutain frog appears when you 
    complete the Snowhead's dungeon, and the ones in the Waterfall dungeon and the Great
    Bay dungeon require you to defeat the bosses who guard the Boss Key. The Marsh frog
    is on a log by one of the giant Octopus monsters.

19. In one of the mail boxes when you are a mailman. See the section that talks about him.

20. On the roof of the temple in Ikana after the mummy trading sequence, hit a switch with
    an arrow, then use Deku Link to launch over to it before the flames come up and surround
    it again.

21. In the launcher caves on the moon before fighting the Mask of Majora. Give masks to the 
    kids to get it.

22. In the water caves on the moon before fighting the Mask of Majora.

23. In the Goron-rolling caves on the moon before fighting the Mask of Majora.

24. In the fourth mini-cave on the moon before you fight the Mask of Majora.

25. Goto the mayor's house wearing the Loving Face and talk to everyone.

26. Goto the post office after the mailman has finished his day, talk to him, then slow down
    time at 10:00 to get a piece from him.

27. Goto the inn with the mask you got for 500 rupees from the thieves' shop. Talk to the old
    lady and take the first and second choices to get a piece of heart.

28. Goto the inn with the mask you got for 500 rupees from the thieves' shop. Talk to the old
    lady and take the first and second choices to get a piece of heart. 

29. Take a picture of the leader of the pirates in the pirate's fort from the ledge in the 
    room where you get the Hookshot before you knock the beehive down. Give it to the man 
    on the beach to get a strange creature. Take it back to the crater with the eels, and 
    kill them all. After they are dead, find the rest of the creatures and set the one you
    have free to get a piece of heart.

30. Back near the first dungeon, use the launcher on the platform where the owl statue is to
    launch to another platform where there is a chest with a heart piece.

31. In a hole outside the obervatory. Wait till 3:00 am and a Deku will come and sell you it
    for 150 rupees. It also needs to be on the second night.

32. In the poe hunting mini game in Ikana. You have 3 minutes to kill 4 poes, and if you  
    win, you will get a piece of Heart.

33. Wear the Keaton's Face by the grass that runs away away in Clock Town and pick up the 
    grass and throw it away. Then answer 5 questions the Keaton asks correctly. For the
    answers to some of the questions that the Keaton will ask, goto:
    http://www.geocities.com/Timessquare/lair/2382/Keaton.jpg

34. Goto the caves behind the waterfall in Ikana. You will need to shoot the sun emblem with
    a Light Arrow to enter. There are 4 doors here, and in order to open each one you will
    need to have a certain number of hearts. If you have 16 or more, and all the masks, you
    should beable to enter all of them. When you kill all of them, you will get a piece of 
    heart.

35. If you give 5000 rupees to the banker in town, you will get a piece of heart.

36. Look for a cave under a rock near the entrance to Great Bay. Kill all the monsters inside,
    and shoot all the beehives with arrows, then dive in the water with Zora like to get a
    piece of heart.

37. In the tree cutting game by the post office, select the second choice. Z-target the trees
    and use the A button to cut them down. If you can get score 30 points by cutting down 10
    trees, you will be a piece of heart.

38. There are 4 caves around Clock Town that each have a gossip stone in them. One is by the
    observatory, another is under a big rock near the western exit of Clock Town, another is
    near the northern exit of town, and the last is near the swamp area, on the right. Use
    Goron Link and play the Goron Lulliby in each of these caves to turn the stones red and
    get a piece of heart.

39. Another piece of heart can be found by winning 150 or more rupees at once at the dog 
    race mini-game.

40. Goto the laucnher in Clock Town that is near the fairy fountain and launch over to the
    hole. Play the Deku game and win it a few times on each day. On the 3rd day, you are 
    given a piece of heart.

41. In the Great Bay area, play the game with the guy on the island for a piece of heart.

42. With the scarecrow song and a magic bean, climb the ledges by the beach and you can get
    a piece of heart.

43. In the Great Bay area, goto the lab and feed the 2 fishes with smaller fishes you catch
    in bottles. Eventually, one will eat the other and you will get a piece of heart.

44. Goto the house in Clock Town with the dancing man and woman on day one. Play the Chu 
    game and win, then come back on day 2 for another game. If you win that one, come back
    on day 3 for a final game, which will get you a piece of heart if you win.

45. On the way to the marsh, take the other path and find a house for an arrow shooting
    mini-game. You havta hit pretty much everything to win, and you will get an upgrade for 
    arrows the first time, and a piece of heart the second.

46. Bet on the Dog races at the Romani Ranch and score more than 150 points to get a piece 
    of heart.

47. Score 30 points playing the wood-chopping game in Clock Town. In order to score more
    than 1 or 2 points for each slice, use the attack the old man running the game tells
    you to use. 

48. After you already have the bottle from the graveyard, go back and do the digging
    quest again to get a piece of heart.

49. You can give any of the Deku Trading Deeds to a hand that will appear at midnight in the 
    Clock Town Inn.

50. There are invisible platforms to the side of Snowhead's Cave. You will also need the scarecrow's
    song to get the piece of heart as well.


V. Misc Hints and Tricks

Hidden Songs
------------

If you play the Song of Time backwards, all time will go at about 1/3 it's normal rate.
This is very useful for long dungeons and exploration. This song is called "Toki no Sakasa
Uta", or "Song of Time Reversion".

Also, RightC x 2, A x 2, DownC x 2 Will play a song that warps you ahead 12 hours. These
two songs can be used at any time in the game, even if you don't know them yet, as im not
sure if they are learnable yet. This song is called the "Toki no Kasane Uta", or "Song of
Time Compression".

In Clock Town, use the bunny mask on the right side of town and jump from the roof to another
ledge, then on top of the door, then to another ledge to get an easy 100 rupees. There are
also 100 more rupees in the inn if you have an inn key. Another good way for rupees is to kill
the huge fire-spitting lizards by Death Moutain. They will give 50 rupees a kill.

You can get Magic Beans for 10 rupees each from the Deku Trader outside of the camera guy's
hut. Just talk to him with Deku Link before you give the map to him as Regular Link. 


VI. Log Book Entries

Comming soon...

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VII. Special Thanks

Thanks to the people on #Zelda2 on EFnet. We helped each other play through the game and might
not have finished it as quickly if a few of us were not there.

Cheub@wanadoo.fr for the locations of a bunch of masks, and a few peices of heart. Also 
translated the kanji in the names of the masks, songs, and some items.

kyouiku@furano.ne.jp for some translation corrections and info on Cafe's story. 

Alot of heart peices are yet to be found, so please, if you know where one or several are
that are not listed here, don't hesitate to e-mail me. Also e-mail me if you have the last
mask in the bottom right corner.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Remember,

This file is copyright BabyRyoga@aol.com. Please do not copy or 
reproduce this list in any way. If you want to use it on a web 
page, you can do so without permission as long as credit is given
and nothing is changed (Don't email asking to post it, just go ahead)
It must also be a non-profit web site.

Lots of people will throw a huge fit if you rip off their work, including me, so don't
do it or you might find yourself and your ISP in a whole heap of trouble.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 BabyRyoga@aol.com 2000
