       ________            __                              __         ____
      /_  __/ /_  ___     / /   ___  ____ ____  ____  ____/ /  ____  / __/
       / / / __ \/ _ \   / /   / _ \/ __ `/ _ \/ __ \/ __  /  / __ \/ /_
      / / / / / /  __/  / /___/  __/ /_/ /  __/ / / / /_/ /  / /_/ / __/
     /_/ /_/ /_/\___/  /_____/\___/\__, /\___/_/ /_/\__,_/   \____/_/
                                  /____/
    _____        __    __           __  ___        _                 _
   /__  /  ___  / /___/ /___ __    /  |/  /___ _  (_)___  _________ ( )_____
     / /  / _ \/ / __  / __ `(_)  / /|_/ / __ `/ / / __ \/ ___/ __ `/// ___/
    / /__/  __/ / /_/ / /_/ /    / /  / / /_/ / / / /_/ / /  / /_/ / (__  )
   /____/\___/_/\__,_/\__,_(_)  /_/  /_/\__,_/_/ /\____/_/   \__,_/ /____/
                                            /___/
                               __  ___           __
                              /  |/  /___ ______/ /__
                             / /|_/ / __ `/ ___/ //_/
                            / /  / / /_/ (__  ) ,<
                           /_/  /_/\__,_/____/_/|_|

For the N64
FAQ by Masvega (masvega@hotmail.com)
http://masvega.cjb.net
Version 0.9
9/20/01

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contents:

1. Version History
2. Story
3. Controls
4. Characters
5. Masks
6. Items
7. The Game
8. Enemies
9. Songs
10. Heart Piece Locations
11. Owl Statue Locations
12. Gossip Stone Sayings
13. Keaton Questions
14. Contact Information
15. Disclaimer
16. Credits

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Version History
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

0.9 (9/20/01)
-Another update!?
-The walkthrough is completed.
-The Enemies section is more or less completed.
-The Songs section is more or less completed.
-Added a Keaton Question section.

0.4 (12/3/00)
-Updated the walkthrough.
-Added more enemies to the Enemies section.
-Added more songs to the Songs section.
-Added a Heart Piece Location section
-Added an Owl Statue Location section.
-Added a Gossip Stone Sayings section.

0.25 (11/19/00)
-Updated the walkthrough.
-Added more enemies to the Enemies section.

0.2 (11/17/00)
-Updated the walkthrough.
-Added more Enemies to the Enemies section.
-Added more Songs to the Songs section.
-Added more Masks to the Masks section.

0.1 (11/1/00)
-The initial release.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Story
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

(From the manual)

In the land of Hyrule, there echoes a legend. A legend held dearly by the
Royal Family that tells of a boy...

A boy who, after battling evil and saving Hyrule, crept away from that land
that had made him a legend...

Done with the battles he once waged across time, he embarked on a journey. A
secret and personal journey...

A journey in search of a beloved and invaluable friend...

A friend with whom he parted ways when he finally fulfilled his heroic
destiny and took his place among legends...

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Controls
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are four control schemes in the Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask. There
is one scheme each for Young Link, Deku Link, Zora Link and Goron Link.

The following controls are for all four schemes:

L Button: Show or hide the map
R Button: Raise shield
Start: Access subscreens
Control Stick: Run, swim (except Deku and Goron Link), jump (if off a ledge)
C Up: Go into first-person perspective (you can't move)
C Left, C Right, C Down: Use items

These controls are for Young Link:

B Button: Swing sword
Z+B or Up+B: Vertical swing
Z+Up+B: Stab
Move the Control Stick 360 Degrees+B: Spin attack
Hold B, then release: Spin attack (requires magic)
A Button: Action, dive (if swimming)
Control Stick+A: Rolling attack
Z Button: Use Z-Targeting, face forward

After using Z-Targeting, you may do the following:

A: Jump attack (with sword drawn)
Down+A: Back flip
Left/Right+A: Side jump
R: Stand with shield raised

For Deku Link:

B: Bubble blast (uses magic)
A: Spin attack
Hold A: Dive (while on top of a Deku Flower)
Release A while in flower: Fly

For Zora Link:

A: Swim quickly (in water)
B: Dive (on surface of water)
B: Punch (on land)
Hold B and release: Boomerang attack
Hold R+B: Barrier (uses magic)
R Button: Barrier (while swimming)

For Goron Link:

A: Curl into a ball (uses magic)
B: Punch
B: Tremor attack (while curled)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. Characters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some of the below descriptions are from the manual.

Link:

Several months after rescuing Princess Zelda and saving the land of Hyrule,
Link set foot into the mysterious world of Termina by chance while in the
midst of a new journey. There, Link lost an important item and received a
task to save the world yet again.

Skull Kid:

Wearing a mystical mask, he appeared suddenly before Link. Hidden within that
mask was tremendous power - a power that not even he understood. He is now
the immediate threat to the welfare of Termina.

Tatl:

A slightly overbearing fairy, Tatl is always thinking of her younger brother.
She will be the companion that Link will often find himself relying on in
this adventure.

Tael:

The younger brother of Tatl, Tael has remained with the Skull Kid and tells
of the key to the Skull Kid's defeat...cryptically of course.

Epona:

The faithful, young horse that has journeyed with Link throughout his
adventures has been taken from him by the Skull Kid. However, it is likely
that the two will meet again.

Happy Mask Man:

A collector of rare and exotic masks, he was mugged and robbed of his most
rare...and dangerous mask. Now, he's asked Link to get it back before
horrible things happen.


More to come...

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Masks
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deku Mask:

This mask transforms Link into Deku Link.

Strengths:
-Can use Deku Flowers to fly around for a limited time
-Can attacks using bubble blasts (requires magic)
-Can hop across the surface of water
-Moves rather quickly

Weaknesses:
-Is susceptible to fire
-Doesn't like falling from great heights
-Sinks after five jumps across the surface of water

----------------

Goron Mask:

This mask transforms Link into Goron Link.

Strengths:
-Can curl into a ball (consumes magic)
-Can create tremors while curled into a ball
-Can punch powerfully

Weaknesses:
-Can't go into deep water
-Can't fall very far
-Runs slowly
-Can't climb onto ledges

-----------------

Zora Mask:

This mask transforms Link into Zora Link.

Strengths:
-Swims quickly
-Can create a barrier of electricity (requires magic)
-Can shoot fins at enemies

Weaknesses:
-Doesn't like fire or ice
-The normal attacks are slow and fairly weak.

-----------------

Blast Mask:

This mask is given to Link by the old lady after you retrieve her bag from
the robber. When worn, you can set off an explosion by pressing B. However,
this will take a little health away from you.

Bremen Mask:

This mask is given to you by the music maker in the Laundry Pool in Clock
Town. When worn, you can march while playing the Ocarina. This will have
strange effects on the minds of weak animals.

Bunny Hood:

This mask is given to you by Grog in Romani Ranch. When worn, you run and
climb much faster.

Don Gero Mask:

This mask allows you to talk to all of the frogs you'll find. Once you
collect them all, you'll be able to recreate their symphony.

Great Fairy Mask:

This mask is given to Link by the Great Fairy of Magic in Clock Town. When
worn, it prevents fairies from running away from you. The hair also begins to
glow when a fairy is nearby.

Kafei Mask:

This mask is given to Link by Madame Aroma. When worn, you will automatically
ask everyone you talk to about Kafei.

Kamaro's Mask:

This mask is given to Link by Kamaro. When worn, you will be able to dance
Kamaro's patented dance. The Rosa sisters could show you something special if
you show them the dance.

Mask of Scents:

This mask is given to Link by the Deku Butler after returning the Deku
Princess to the Deku Palace and will make little clouds come up from the
ground when worn. If you swipe a bottle through the area, you'll receive a
mushroom. If you give the mushroom to Kotake, she'll be able to make Blue
Potions.

----------------

More to come...

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Items
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ocarina of Time:

This item plays songs that you learn throughout your journey. All of the
songs have magical effects. All forms of Link can use this item.

Deku Nuts:

These release a flash when they hit the ground, blinding and paralyzing any
nearby enemies. However, some enemies are immune. Young Link and Deku Link
can use these.

Deku Sticks:

These can be used as weapons, but they snap easily. You can use them to light
fires if you put their ends into a torch. Young Link can use these.

Bombs:

Throw these or drop them at your feet to set them. They will explode after a
few seconds and can kill enemies as well as knock down walls. Young Link can
use these.

Bombchu:

Put these down and they start rolling away. They explode if they hit an
obstacle or if the fuse goes out. Young Link can use these.

Powder Kegs:

These are set up similar to bombs. They have a much larger blast radius than
normal bombs. They will explode after the fuse burns up. Goron Link can use
these.

Hookshot:

This has an expanding chain with a hook that can grab onto objects and pull
you toward them. It can also be used as a weapon or to grab items. Young Link
can use this.

Bow:

This allows you to shoot arrows at your enemies. You can also shoot switches
with this. Young Link can use this weapon.

Fire Arrow:

These fire the same way normal arrows do, but this creates a flame wherever
it hits. It requires magic. Young Link can use this.

Ice Arrow:

These are similar to arrows, but this freezes anything it hits. Magic is
consumed. Young Link can use this.

Light Arrow:

These create a bright flash of light when they hit something. Magic is
consumed with this item. Young Link can use this.

Lens of Truth:

This item will allow you to find invisible enemies or to reveal false walls.
Magic is consumed while you use this item. All forms of Link can use this.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. The Game
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------
The Beginning
--------------

The game begins with text regarding the legend of Link. A rather long
cutscene of Link traveling through the woods then begins. Two fairies then
startles Epona, leaving Link knocked out on the ground. A skull kid then
appears and takes Link's ocarina. Link wakes up and the skull kid rides off
on Epona. A little chase scene begins, but Link gets thrown off of Epona.

Now, you're in control of Link. Go forward into the tree and jump across the
tree stumps. When you reach the next opening, you'll fall down a long pit.
You'll awake at the bottom, where the Skull Kid is waiting. After he performs
a little magic, you'll find that he has turned you into a Deku Shrub! The
Skull Kid leaves, but one of the fairies gets trapped behind.

Open the door that the Skull Kid went through and then follow the passageway.
At the end of the hall, the fairy will introduce herself as Tatl. Stand over
the Deku Flower and Tatl will tell you the controls for your current form.
Dive into the Deku Flower and use it to fly across the room onto the ledge on
the other side. Open the door and then use the next two Deku Flowers in
succession to reach a ledge with a treasure chest on it. Open it to receive
Deku Nuts.

From there, use the Deku Flower and go around the pillar to the right of the
treasure chest to find the next platform. Then use the Deku Flowers to reach
the final ledge. Check the nearby tree and then go through the passageway. In
the next room, go up the wooden walkways until you find a door. As you reach
the door, a man will talk to you. He'll tell you to find his mask. From
there, open the door and go into Clock Town.

------------
A New Quest
------------

Tatl tells you to visit the Great Fairy. From where you are go right and go
up the wooden ramp until you reach the second possible entryway. You should
now be in North Clock Town. Go to your left and follow the passageway to a
cave. Inside the cave, you'll find that the Great Fairy has been shattered.
You must now find the missing fairy. Go to the Laundry Pool (you must go
through an entrance in South Clock Town) and you'll see the fairy in the
water. Retrieve the fairy and then go back to the Great Fairy's Cave. The
Great Fairy will reconstruct herself and then give you the power of magic.

Now go to the kid blowing rocks at the balloon. Shoot the balloon with a
bubble blast and then talk to the kid. The kid will say that he will give you
the code to his hideout if you can catch him and four of his friends. Agree
to play his game. Two of the children are in North Clock Town, two others are
in East Clock Town, and the final one is in West Clock Town. After you find
all five, you'll receive the code (which is random).

Before you use the code, however, go to South Clock Town. If you search a
little, you should find a large, yellow Deku Flower. Try to use it and a Deku
Shrub will appear. He'll tell you that he wants a Moon's Tear. Now go to East
Clock Town and find a kid blocking a long passageway. Talk to him and give
him the code so he'll move. Then go through the passageway.

Bounce through the water so that you reach the various platforms. When you
reach the other side of the tunnel, follow the path. Beware, however, since
Skulltulas are present and may drop down. Eventually, you'll reach a ladder.
Blow up the balloon in front of it and then climb up the ladder. From there,
go forward and you'll enter a new room. Talk to and dance with the scarecrow
until it's the third day. Then, go up the stairs and talk to the astronomer.
Look through the telescope and zoom in above the clock tower to find the
Skull Kid. After that, a meteorite will fall. Stop looking at through the
microscope and go out the door to retrieve the Moon's Tear.

Now go back to South Clock Town. Go back to the yellow Deku Flower and give
the Deku Shrub the Moon's Tear. He'll let you use the Deku Flower. First, use
it to get the Heart Piece on the clock tower. Now wait until midnight. At
midnight, the clock tower door opens. If you're not already on the ledge, use
the Deku Flower to get to it and then go through the door. Inside, you'll
find the Skull Kid, who is preparing to drop a meteor on the planet (which is
a bad thing). Hit the Skull Kid with a bubble blast, which makes him drop the
ocarina. Pick up the ocarina and you'll remember Princess Zelda teaching you
the Song of Time. After you awake from your daydream, use the Ocarina and
play the Song of Time to send yourself into the past.

---------------
Second Chances
---------------

With the use of the Song of Time, Link and Tatl have gone back to the dawn of
the first day. Now after staring in awe at the magic for a little bit, visit
the Happy Mask Man and he'll teach you the Song of Healing. Play it and the
Deku Shrub will be expelled from your body and turned into a mask. After you
finish talking to the Happy Mask Man, reenter Clock Town.

--------------------------
Gaining Important Items
--------------------------

First, go to the Great Fairy's Cave and talk to the fairies. Go to the
Laundry Pool again and retrieve the fairy again. Then go back to the Great
Fairy's Cave and resurrect the Great Fairy. The Fairy will then recharge your
magic meter and give you the Great Fairy Mask, which allows you to collect
stray fairies.

Now, exit the cave and look around North Clock Town for a winding ramp toward
the entrance to East Clock Town. As Young Link, go up the ramp and then
quickly hit A to climb up to the platform on top before you slide down. Then
jump to the next platform and then to the tree to get a Heart Piece!

Next, go to East Clock Town and find the Bomber guarding the entrance to
their secret entryway. Tell him the code and then enter and exit the tunnel.
On the way out, Jim will come to you and declare you as an honorary member of
the Bombers. He'll then give you the Bombers' Notebook.

Next, go to the Mayor's House. It's near the entrance the Bombers' tunnel in
East Clock Town. Enter the door on the right of the receptionist's desk and
talk to the two people. One of them, Madame Aroma, will give you the Kafei
Mask if you agree to help her son. Now exit and enter the room on the left of
the receptionist's desk. Listen to the conversation and then leave the
building.

Now wait until nightfall and go to North Clock Town. When it becomes 12:00, a
burglar will steal a lady's bag. As Young Link, hit the burglar with your
sword to make him drop the goods and then let him leave the town. Afterward,
the old lady will give you the Blast Mask in thanks!

Wait until nightfall and go to the Laundry Pool. You'll find a musician
there. If you talk to him and listen to his story, he'll give you the Bremen
Mask!

Try to gather 200 rupees and deposit them in the bank in West Clock Town.
Once your account has 200 rupees, you'll get an Adult Wallet, which allows
you to carry 200 rupees!

Now go to the Bomb Shop, which is across the street from the Bank. Buy the
Bomb Bag, then leave.

Now go to South Clock Town and find the armed guard. Talk to him as Young
Link and he'll let you pass.

------------------
The Outside World
------------------

Now you're in Termina Field. Go straight, killing Slimes if necessary, until
you reach a tree. A cutscene will then air showing the Skull Kid and the two
fairies in happier times. After it ends, go to the right. You'll see another
passage to your left. Enter it and you'll be in Milk Road.

----------
Milk Road
----------

Go straight from the start and you'll see an Owl Statue in front of you. Hit
it. One of the three shrubs around the Statue always contains a red fairy, so
keep that in mind if you ever want to get a fairy. Now go straight and you
should find a boulder. Use the Song of Double Time repeatedly to reach the
dawn of the final day. The boulder should be gone by then. Enter the new
passage and you'll enter Romani Ranch.

-------------
Romani Ranch
-------------

Go straight and Tatl will point out Epona to you. Talk to the girl sitting on
the stump, Romani and then enter the nearby shack and talk the owner, Cremia.
Now exit the shack and run toward the shack in the distance (it's away from
the entrance to Romani Ranch). You should eventually see a shack with Cuccos
painted on the side. Enter it. Talk to Grog, the man in the middle of the
Cucco Ranch, and he'll tell you of his final wish. Now put on the Bremen Mask
and round up all 10 chicks. When you do, they'll all turn into Cuccos. Talk
to Grog again and he'll give you the Bunny Hood!

Now want to play the Song of Time again and then leave South Clock Town. In
Termina Field, go to the tree where the cutscene aired, and go down the
passage to the left of the tree.

----------------------------
The Passageway to the Swamp
----------------------------

This is rather straightforward. If it's day, you'll fight Slimes and Bats. 
However, if it's night, the Slimes are replaced by Wolfos.

----------
The Swamp
----------

First, climb up the ladder in front of you and enter the shack. You'll find a
tourist information spot. Talk to the man at the booth and then go over to
the ticket window. Following that, leave the shack. Dive off the side of the
platform that the Deku Shrub is on and swim straight until you reach more
land. Defeat the Deku Babas and you'll see another shack. Climb up the ladder
and enter.

--------------
Finding Kuome
--------------

Talk to the old hag and she'll tell you that her sister is missing after she
went in the woods for some mushrooms. Exit the shack after talking to the hag
and then go around the shack and drop off the back portion of the platform.
You'll find an entrance. Go through it to enter the Woods of Mystery.

Inside the Woods of Mystery, you'll find a monkey. Talk to it and it will
lead you to Kuome. The path is always different each time you restart the
game or use the Song of Time to go back to the first day. Follow the monkey
and roll past the charges of the Snappers you'll find. Don't bother attacking
them. Even if you could defeat the Snappers, you'll lose your view of the
monkey. When you find Kuome, she'll tell you that she can't move. Exit the
Woods of Mystery. Go back to the hag's shop and tell her about Kuome. She'll
give you a Bottle of Red Potion. Exit the shop and reenter the Woods of
Mystery. Follow the monkey again to find Kuome and give her the Red Potion. 
She'll be revived and fly off. Now exit the Woods of Mystery. After you
leave, three monkeys will ask you to find their brother in a palace.

----------------
The Deku Palace
----------------

Go to the Tourist Information shack and talk to Kuome. She'll give you a free
boat cruise. Use the pictograph box to take a picture if you wish. Get off
the boat when it reaches the temple. Go through the entrance to the temple.

Now put on the Deku Mask. Walk forward and talk to the guards to enter. Enter
the Royal Chamber and talk to everyone, including the monkey. Do not take the
Deku Mask off at any time! Now leave the Royal Chamber. A monkey will come
down and talk to you. After you stop talking, enter the first door on the
left. Make sure to avoid being seen by the guards and continue sneaking
around until you find a hole. Drop down it and then take off the Deku Mask.
Go to the pond, take out your bottle and fill it with water. Then talk to the
man sitting in the cave to receive a Magic Bean! You can buy more if you
wish. Put the Deku Mask back on and stand into the light. Now either get
caught or sneak your way out of the Palace.

----------------------------
Reaching the Captive Monkey
----------------------------

You should now be at the Deku Palace gates with the guards in front of you.
With the Deku Mask on, cross the sea to your right using the lily pads. When
you reach the end of the string of lily pads, you should see some grassland
with a little patch of soft soil on it. Take off the Deku Mask and place the
Magic Bean in the soft soil. Drop the water you've stored in the bottle onto
the bean and watch it grow.

Put the Deku Mask back on and step onto the new vine. Ride it up to the
entrance at the top. Go through the little walkway and you'll find yourself
above the maze you sneaked through earlier. Use the Deku Flowers to move
through the top of the palace. Kill Mad Scrubs with bubble blasts as you go.
If it helps you, you can look for your shadow on the platform below you so
that you know when to land.

After you go through this entire course, you'll find yourself in the Royal
Chamber, in the cage with the monkey. Talk to the monkey and then take off
the Deku Mask. Talk to the monkey again and he'll tell you to cut the rope.
Hit the pillar with your sword and then talk to the monkey again. Put on the
Deku Mask again and then bring out the Ocarina (or in this case, Deku Pipes).
The monkey will then tell you of his plight and teach you the Sonata of
Awakening. Unfortunately, playing this sonata gets you both caught.

--------------
To The Temple
--------------

Now you should back at the gates with the guards in front of you. Go to the
right again, but after reaching the first shrub, go slightly to the right
instead of going straight. You should reach another lily pad followed by a
ledge with a Deku Flower on it. Use the Deku Flower to fly up to the next
ledge and enter the entrance.

Now you should find yourself on top of a flower. Take off the mask in order
to defeat the Dragonflies and put it back on when you must fly to the next
flower. When it becomes time for the third jump, aim for the giant rock next
to the flower. If you land far enough into the side of the rock, you can run
up the rock and get to the next flower. From there, fly to the ledge above
the waterfall.

When you reach the ledge, an owl will begin to talk to you. He teaches you
about the importance of the Owl Statues and then fly off. Read the stone the
owl was perched on to learn the Song of Soaring. Now, continue walking on the
ledge and dive into the Deku Flower. Fly across the waterfall and onto the
next ledge. You'll see a door next to you. Enter it to enter Woodfall.

---------
Woodfall
---------

From the start, turn right and then hop across the river to the lily pad and
then to the bridge. Now carefully fight the Hiploops or just lure the
Hiploops off the planks and then quickly run across. At the end of the second
plank, take off the mask and take care of the Mad Shrub. Now put the mask
back on and use the Deku Flower to go to the middle of the next plank. Take
the mask off and defeat the two Mad Scrubs.

Now go to the farther Deku Flower from the start and fly to the platform
toward the center. You'll see the Deku Scrub mark, but first, take the mask
off and hit the Owl Statue. Now put the mask back on and stand on the mark.
Play the Sonata of Awakening and a giant structure will rise up in the center
of Woodfall. Fly to it and enter the opening to enter the Woodfall Temple.

--------------------
The Woodfall Temple
--------------------

From the start, break the vase if you need a red fairy. Next, dive into the
Deku Flower and fly to the next platform. Now, you should see a stray fairy.
Take off the Deku Mask and put on the Great Fairy Mask. The fairy will come
to you (1). Now put the Deku Mask back on and go back to the initial
platform. Use the Deku Flower to go to a ledge on the other side, where there
is a treasure chest. Open the chest to find another stray fairy (2)! Now jump
in the Deku Flower and go to the next ledge and finally fly to the ledge
containing the door. Beware that Skulltulas guard either side of the ledge.
Open the door and go through.

Kill the passive Deku Baba to your left and then go down the platform. When
you reach the end, you'll find another Deku Baba. Kill it and a fairy will
appear. Get it (3). Now put on the Deku Mask and look toward the poisoned
water. Jump across all of the plant pads in the water to reach the other side
of the water. You should see an unlocked door in front of you. Go through it.

In the next room, you'll find more plant pads and a Deku Flower in the center
of the room. Use the pads to reach the Flower and then fly to the treasure
chest to the left. Open it to receive a key. Now use the pads to reach the
Flower again and fly to the door that you not come in from. Enter it and
you'll find yourself in a room with three Snappers. Use the Deku Flowers to
defeat them. Once they're all dead, a treasure chest containing the dungeon
map will appear. Now exit the room and then exit the next room (using the
Deku Flower to reach the platform).

Before you go across the water to the locked door, hop across the water to
the left to reach an island with some jars on it. One of them contains a
fairy (4). Now go back to the original ledge and then use the plant pads to
go across the water again. Kill the Deku Baba again and then unlock the door
and enter the next room. There, run and you'll find a giant block. As Young
Link, press and hold A and move the Control Stick up to move it. Go to the
right and follow the planks until you reach a Skulltula. Kill it and a fairy
will appear (5). Continue along the path and push the block forward until it
is out of the center and into the passageway you came in from. Now go back to
where you killed the Skulltula. You'll see a torch nearby. Take out a Deku
Stick (you should have one if you killed the passive Deku Baba) and set it in
the fire. Now quickly run through the path until you reach another torch.
Light it and the gates blocking the door will open. If the Deku Stick starts
to burn up before you reach the torch, put it away (press A while standing
still).

Now put on the Deku Mask and open the door. Inside, you'll find two
Dragonflies. Quickly dive into the Deku Flower and pop out to defeat the
closer Dragonfly. To defeat the other Dragonfly, either take off the mask and
battle it or just hit it with a bubble blast. After both enemies are killed,
a treasure chest holding the compass appears. Get the compass and then exit
the room.

Now light a Deku Stick on fire and then run up the stairs. Light the torch at
the top on fire. You can put away the Deku Stick if you wish to. Now put on
the Bunny Hood and light a Deku Stick on fire with the upstairs torch and
then jump across the platforms to reach the door covered with a spider web.
Set the web on fire and it will be destroyed. Now enter the new passageway
and kill the two Deku Babas. Now continue forward.

In the next hallway, you'll find a throng of Black Boes. Swing your sword
wildly and advance forward until you reach a larger room. Run around killing
Black Boes until a treasure chest appears. Open it to find another fairy (6).
Now put on the Bunny Hood and light a Deku Stick with the torch in the center
of the room. Now light all the torches on the walls and the door will open.
Go through the door.

Now put on the Deku Mask and use the Deku Flowers to go across the gap. It
would be a good idea to merely ignore the Dragonflies. At the end, quickly go
through the next entrance before the Dragonflies can hit you. Now walk on the
ledge and activate the switch to make ladders appear. Now enter the door
behind you. In the next room, go to the right and enter the next door. On the
other side, you'll fight a Dinofols.

Z-Targeting is a must if you want to beat the Dinofols. Have Z-Targeting on
all the time and put up your shield a lot. He is faster than you, so
concentrate on defense more. Circle around him at all times, as he can hit
you when you're in close even if you have your shield up. When the Dinofols
jumps, that's your cue to attack. After you hit it, back away because the
Dinofols will blow fire at you. Continue this pattern until it's dead. When
the Dinofols dies, the door opens and a treasure chest appears. Open it to
receive the Hero's Bow.

Now exit the room. Hit the jars if you need to refill your health. Afterward,
bring out the Hero's Bow and hit the eye switch across the room with an
arrow. A platform with a Deku Flower will begin to float up into the center
of the room. Put on the Deku Mask and use the Deku Flowers to reach the door
on the other side. Now you'll be facing a Gekko!

Let the Gekko charge you and then hit it with a sword slash. After being hit
three times, the Gekko will call out a Snapper and ride it. Put on the Deku
Mask and dive in a Deku Flower. When the Gekko rides above you, jump out of
the Flower so that you hit the Snapper. Land quickly and take off the mask.
Use Z-Targeting on the Gekko and hit it with an arrow. Repeat the process
three more times and the Gekko will be dead. After the Gekko dies, the door
in the rear of the room will unlock. Open it and get the Boss Key. Now exit
the room.

Put on the Deku Mask and use the Deku Flower to reach the platform in the
center of the room. Then ride the platform to the top and use the Deku Flower
to reach the door to the right (it's the one to the shrine). Take off the
mask and stand where the switch is. Take out the bow and fire an arrow
through the lit torch onto the unlit torch on top of the shrine. The unlit
torch will light and the platform will rise into the air and begin spinning.
Now go to the right and around the ledge until you reach the Deku Flower. If
you look to the right, you'll see a fairy in a bubble. Hit the bubble with
your sword and then grab the fairy (7). Now go to the Deku Flower and put on
the Deku Mask. Use the Flower to reach the spinning platform. Now take off
the mask and take out the Bow. Fire an arrow through the flame to light the
unlit torch in the corner. This will open the door behind the Deku Flower.
Now drop down and climb up the ladder you activated earlier. Go to the door
you just opened and enter it.

In the next room, walk to the ledge and climb down the ladder in front of
you. Put on the Deku Mask and use the Deku Flower to go up the ledges. You'll
want to go up both sides as there are fairies on both sides (8,9,10). After
going up the left side (the side you'll need to go up to continue), hit the
two Dragonflies with arrows and then hit the crystal in the distance with an
arrow. This will get rid of the fire around a fairy and a Deku Flower.
Quickly put on the Deku Mask and fly to the next platform and quickly run to
the fairy before the Skulltula drops down. Jump to the pillar with the fairy
and free it (11), then jump to the platform under the platform where the
Skulltula is. There's a Deku Flower here. Use it to reach the Deku Flower on
the other pillar and then use that Flower to reach the next platform. Take
the mask off and kill the Skulltula with an arrow. Then put the mask back on
and fly to the ledge where the door is. Unlock it and enter to face the boss,
Odolwa.

------------------------------
Masked Jungle Warrior: Odolwa
------------------------------

This is a long battle. Odolwa is huge and has a rather large sword. However,
he's not that difficult. You'll want to be Young Link for this battle. His
main attack is a vertical slash with his sword. He will also jump to a random
spot and then slice with his sword. Z-Target him at all times and keep your
distance with your shield up to block the sword swipes. If you're too close
to Odolwa, he'll hit you with his sword even if you're blocking. At this
point, run up to him while he's dancing and hit him with a couple horizontal
slashes. He'll then begin dancing again and bugs will drop down from the
ceiling. These will be the sources of your health for the entire battle.
Attack them and defeat them as quickly as possible to minimize the damage
they cause. Do not take your Z-Targeting away from Odolwa. Once you kill the
bugs, they should leave hearts if you need them. Next, Odolwa will summon a
throng of locusts to attack you. Ignore these and take the chance to run up
to Odolwa and hit him with some slashes. If he begins war dancing again, take
the opportunity to hit him with some arrows. Eventually, Odolwa will begin
creating rings of fire. These aren't too much trouble unless he attacks you
while the ring's still up, which he rarely does. Hit him with arrows while
you're in the middle of the ring. After a bunch of hits, Odolwa begins
spinning around with his sword pointing outward. This can be avoided by
putting your shield up, but if you don't block it, it will hurt greatly. Once
he begins to do this, it only takes a few more hits before he dies.

After Odolwa is defeated, a heart container and a transporter appear. Get the
heart container and then go in the transporter. You'll find that Odolwa's
spirit has been transferred into a mask. You then go into a sequence where
you learn the Oath to Order. The poisoned water will then seep out of the
dungeon and the swamp. Afterward, you'll find yourself in a new part of the
dungeon. After the cutscene, cut open the vines in front of you to save the
Deku Princess. After she finishes talking, put her in a bottle and then go to
the Deku Palace.

Next, go to the Deku Shrine and talk to the butler. Follow him through the
course and you'll get the Mask of Scents! Step into the transporter to leave
the Shrine.

-------------------
Back to the Temple
-------------------

Use the Song of Soaring to go back to Woodfall. Now put on the Deku Mask and
use the Flower to reach the Temple. Go to the room that had the first key in
it. Stand on the Deku Flower and look on the wall the treasure chest is on.
To the left of it, you'll see a hive in one of the wall statues' mouths. Hit
it with an arrow and a fairy will appear. Put on the Great Fairy Mask to make
it come to you (12). Now exit the room the way you came and climb up one of
the ladders. Put on the Deku Mask and use the Deku Flower to reach the switch
next to the torch in the corner. Land on the ledge and switch to Young Link
to activate the switch. A treasure chest will appear. Go to it and open it to
find another fairy (13). Now go to the room with the block and the torches.
Put on the Great Fairy Mask and dive under the water. Hit the bubble guarding
the fairy and it will come to you (14). Now get out of the water and take out
your Bow. Aim at one of the hives and hit it with an arrow. One of the hives
contains a hornet that's somewhat difficult to kill, while the other one
contains the final fairy (15). After you get this last fairy, leave the
Temple.

-----------------------------------
Unlocking the Great Fairy of Power
-----------------------------------

Put on the Deku Mask and use the Flower to reach the podium where the Owl
Statue is. Now use the Deku Flower again to reach the Deku Flower on top of a
tall rock. Use that Deku Flower to reach the opening in the upper part of the
mountain. Enter the cave and you'll find that you're in a fairy fountain. Go
straight and all of the stray fairies will join with the ones already there
and unearth the Great Fairy of Power. She will thank you for restoring her
and then supercharge your Spin Attack. Now leave the cave.

Drop down and put on the Deku Mask. Follow the path, using Deku Flowers as
necessary, until you reach a treasure chest. Open it to find a piece of
heart! Now exit Woodfall.

---------------------
One More Thing To Do
---------------------

Before using the Song of Time, you can re-rescue Kuome if you need to and go
on the cruise again. Now a witch will fly around holding a target. If you hit
the target 19 times, you'll get a heart piece.

Wait until the third day and then go to the astronomer's hideout in Clock
Town. Look through the microscope and look at the Skull Kid again, then get
the Moon's Tear again. Go back to the same shrub that wanted it earlier and
give the Tear to him. Now use the Song of Soaring to go to the Southern
Swamp. Talk to the shrub next to the Tourist Information Cottage and give him
the deed. He'll give you the deed to his flower. Put on the Deku Mask if you
haven't already and use the Deku Flower to reach the top of the house and
another heart piece!

--------------------------
Getting More Heart Pieces
--------------------------

Go to the Swordsman's School in West Clock Town and play the Expert
Challenge. Cut all 10 logs using jumping slashes and you'll get a heart
piece.

If it's later than 9 AM, use the Song of Time to go back into the past. Wait
until 9 AM in West Clock Town, which is when the Postman will come out.
Follow him as he makes his rounds. When he enters the Stock Pot Inn, enter it
and listen to the conversation between the postman and Anju. After he leaves,
talk to Anju and say you have a reservation. She'll give you a key to a room.
Leave the Inn and continue following the Postman. When he re-enters the Post
Office, enter it and talk to him. He'll challenge you to stop a timer after
exactly 10 seconds. If you do this, you'll get a heart piece.

Now play the Song of Soaring and go to the Southern Swamp. Rescue Kuome yet
again and then go on the boat ride. Get off at the Deku Palace and put on the
Deku Mask to get inside. Then, take a picture of the King and use the Song of
Soaring to reach the Southern Swamp again. Go to the Tourist Information desk
and show the man the picture. He'll then give you a heart piece.

-------------------------
Journey to the Mountains
-------------------------

Go to North Clock Town and talk to the guard there. He'll let you pass. Exit
Clock Town and venture into Termina Field. Go straight and then run down the
ramp. Put the Bunny Hood on and then fight the Dodongo. Defeat it to get a
purple (50) rupee. Now search the tundra for a hole. Drop down inside it and
use Bombs to kill the two Dodongos inside. Make sure you kill at least one
before you run out of bombs; you can use your sword to finish off the other
one. After doing this, a treasure chest will appear. Open it to get a piece
of heart! Now exit the cave.

Go to where you first entered the tundra and then go up the ramp on the other
side of the tundra. Follow the path until you reach a wall of ice. Take out
the Bow and hit the icicle above the wall with two arrows. The icicle will
fall and clear the path. Go forward and you'll reach a new part of the path.
Blue Tektites will appear out of the ground out of nowhere. Kill them before
they can do much damage. Don't worry about destroying the snowballs until you
reach an area where four snowballs block the path. Destroy the two leftmost
snowballs, then proceed.

You'll soon reach a sign. Go past it and kill the Tektite. Make a left the
first chance you get (or destroy the three snowballs if you need health).
Follow the path and you'll reach the Mountain Village.

---------------------
The Mountain Village
---------------------

From the start, go straight and talk to the Goron on the ledge. Then keep
going straight and hit the Owl Statue with your sword. Next, go to the right
and run past the water. Run into the canyon and read the sign which should
say that you're going to Goron Village.

In the next path, run along the path, defeating Tektites and White Wolfos as
you go. If you fall off, there's a ramp that will take you to the first
bridge. Most of the snowballs have enemies under them. At the end, you'll
reach Goron Village.

--------------
Goron Village
--------------

Talk to the gatekeeper of the village (the one standing right in front of
you). Tell him you want to enter and he'll open the door for you. Now follow
the path until you reach the pillar on which an owl is perched. He'll talk to
you about your journey. Tell him you want to proceed and he'll fly to the
village, leaving feathers behind him. Jump to the feathers in mid-air and
you'll find that they're on invisible islands. Jump across the chasm to the
door. Enter the cave and you'll find a treasure chest. Open it to receive the
Lens of Truth! Use the Lens of Truth and you'll unveil an invisible Skulltula
and an invisible treasure chest behind the big chest. Kill the Skulltula and
open the chest for a red rupee. Bomb the large rock that's to your left when
you enter the room to reveal a treasure chest with a purple rupee in it.

Exit the cave and wear the Lens of Truth to reveal the floating blocks that
you have to use to reach the other side of the chasm. On the other side,
you'll find a ghost if you still have the Lens on (you can see his shadow on
the ground if you don't). Talk to him with the Lens on and he'll tell you to
follow him. Do so and you'll eventually end up at the lake in Mountain
Village. If you're still wearing the Lens, you can see that there is a ladder
on the other end. Jump across the ice sheets to get to the other side of the
lake and then climb up the ladder. You'll find forks in the ladder, which the
Goron Ghost would probably lead you through if you hadn't lost him yet. On
the chance that you've already lost him (which is probable), take the right
fork, then the left fork and then the right fork to reach the top. Now look
at the Ghost through the Lens of Truth and he'll enter the gravesite. Enter
it as well. On the inside, look through the Lens of Truth one last time and
you'll see the Ghost standing next to the gravestone. Talk to him and then
play the Song of Healing to his face. Darmani's spirit will dissipate and
revert to the Goron Mask. Once you get the Goron Mask, put it on and read the
gravestone. After reading it, go around to the back of the gravestone and
drag it backward, revealing a hot spring. Take off the mask and then get a
bottle of hot spring water. Leave the cave and then melt the ice around the
Goron nearby. Talk to him, then get some more water in the cave.

-----------------
The Goron Shrine
-----------------

Go to the screen with the bridges and the White Wolfos. Drop off one of the
bridges and run around until you reach a large snowball. Tatl will lock onto
it. Place a bomb or hit it with a Goron Punch to reveal a frozen Goron. Pour
the hot water on the ice and it will melt, revealing the Goron Elder. Talk to
him twice with the Goron Mask on and he'll teach you the Goron Lullaby (or at
least the beginning of it).

Now go up the ramp and go across the bridges to enter Goron Village. Walk to
where the gatekeeper was and put on the Goron Mask. Pound the ground and the
door to the Goron Shrine should open. Run to the right and drop down. Then
enter the open entrance.

Inside, follow the ramp up until you reach the throne room. Walk to the baby
(while wearing the Goron Mask) and play the Lullaby Intro. The baby will then
sing the rest of the Lullaby. With the baby asleep, take off the Goron Mask
and put on the Bunny Hood. Take out a Deku Stick and light it on one of the
lit torches, then run out to the main part of the shrine and light all of the
torches. Once you do this, the chandelier will begin to rise and revolve. Put
the Deku Stick away and put on the Goron Mask. Run or roll to the top of the
ramp you should see a little wedge before the gap to the chandelier. Roll so
that spikes come out from you and go up the wedge and hit one of the jars on
the chandelier. Once all the jars are broken, a piece of meat will fall down
to the ground. Pick it up and take it back to the hungry Goron in Mountain
Village. Drop it if you need to in order to defend yourself. When you reach
the Goron, throw the meat onto his ledge and he'll eat it and give you the
Don Gero Mask.

-------------------------------
Getting to the Snowhead Temple
-------------------------------

Enter the path next to the Owl Statue in Mountain Village to reach the path
to Snowhead. Kill the ice bat with an arrow and then put on the Goron Mask.
Use the Goron Leap, or rolling until spikes come out to cross the first jump.
Continue rolling to avoid the falling snowballs. When you reach the next
jump, destroy the snowball in front of the jump with a punch, then back up
and use the Goron Leap again. Now just go forward until you reach Snowhead.

In Snowhead, you'll find an ice bridge with snowballs rolling down it. Hit
the Owl Statue and then try to cross. Tatl will tell you that there is
something past the blizzard. Use the Lens of Truth to see a giant Goron which
is blowing the ice winds. Put on the Goron Mask and play the Goron Lullaby to
put the Goron to sleep and out of the way. Now cross the bridge, punching
snowballs if you need to. When you reach the end of the bridge, you'll find a
steep incline. Roll up it and two White Wolfos will attack you when you reach
the top. Take off the mask if you need to in order to defeat them. Afterward,
go left from the incline and you'll eventually reach a twisting ice ramp. Go
up it and the entrance to the cave is at the end.

--------------------
The Snowhead Temple
--------------------

In the first room, walk toward the icicles in front of the block. When you
come close to the block, White Boes will appear and begin to attack you. Kill
them all, then, with the Goron Mask on, push the block until it falls. In the
next room, kill the White Wolfos and then go in the unlocked door. In this
room, put on the Goron Mask and use the Goron Leap to cross the bridge. If
you fall, just run to the ladder and try again. Gorons are invulnerable to
lava. After crossing the bridge, take off the mask and put on the Bunny Hood.
Jump to the next cave.

In this room, hit the Real Bombchu with an arrow to detonate it, then open
the treasure chest to your left. In it is the Dungeon Map! Now put on the
Great Fairy Mask and let the fairy come to you (1). Now exit the room and
jump back across to the ledge. Follow the path and then enter the next door.

In this room, a little cinema will play showing the vastness of the temple. Now 
run and enter the only open door at this point. In this room, put on the Goron 
Mask and pull the block to your left to the area farthest away from the door, 
where it will sink. A treasure chest will appear. Ignore it for now and go back 
to the hole where the block was. Enter and you'll find a treasure chest which 
contains a key in it. Now exit and run to the room which you came
from. You should see a cave to the left of the door. Enter it and you'll be
in a room with lava interspersed in it. Wear the Goron Mask and look for a
switch in the lava. Press it and a treasure chest will appear. Open it to
release a fairy (2)! Now go back to the room with the Freezards and the lava.
Drop off the ledge onto the ground just before the lava. First, take out the
bow and aim under the platform where the room where you got the first fairy
was. You'll see a fairy in a bubble. Hit it with an arrow and wear the Great
Fairy Mask so it will come to you (3). Next, use the Lens of Truth to find
the true opening to the pillar in which the visible fairy in a bubble is and
it hit it with an arrow. Continue wearing the Great Fairy Mask and it will
eventually come to you (4). Now wear the Goron Mask and cross the lava. Then
climb up the ladder again and open the door.

Kill the White Wolfos, then open the locked door. Go straight and open the
treasure chest to get the compass. Now place a bomb at the cracked wall and
let it explode. Put on the Bunny Hood and enter the new opening. In the next
room, take out the Bow and hit all of the large icicles twice so that they
destroy the ice surrounding the ledges. Now cross, making sure to avoid the
falling icicles. At the end of the jumps, you'll be at a large snowball.
Destroy it to reveal a treasure chest. Open it to get a key. Before exiting
the room, use the Lens of Truth to find a secret passageway. Enter it and
open the treasure chest to reveal another fairy (5)! Now drop down, find the
locked door, and open it.

In the next room, run along the path and you'll see some White Boes fall
down. Stand on the large switch and put on the Goron Mask. Then use the Goron
Pound to raise the pillar. Take off the Goron Mask and put on the Bunny Hood.
Jump to the pillar and then run to the next ledge. Take out the Bow and aim
toward the ceiling. Use the Lens of Truth to locate a fairy trapped in a
bubble. Free it and put on the Great Fairy Mask to bring it to you (6). Put
on the Goron Mask again and pound the next switch. Now go back to the pillar
you just jumped on and pound it into the ground to remove the pillar from the
door. Next, take off the mask and put on the Bunny Hood and run to the pillar
with the green insignia. Climb on top of it and jump to the ledge. Next, open
the door.

At the other end, you'll find you're on a ice-topped ledge. As before, put on
the Goron Mask and use the Goron Leap to cross the ravine. On the other side,
you should see a ladder near you. Roll on the ice path next to it until you
reach the next ledge. Use the Goron Leap again to cross the gap and reach the
ledge on the other side. Open the door to fight the Wizrobe.

The Wizrobe will fire blasts of ice at you that will freeze you repeatedly if
you stay in the blast radius. If the blast does hit you, move away as quickly
as possible. To defeat him, wear the Goron Mask and roll up to him while he's
warming up before he fires, then hit him with a punch. After two hits, the
Wizrobe will begin to send dummy Wizrobes out of the corners to confuse you.
Just look around the room for the Wizrobe that stays put, then roll up to him
and hit him. After two more hits, the Wizrobe dies. With his defeat, a
treasure chest appears. Open to receive the Fire Arrows!

Now open the door and use the Goron Leap across the gap again. Open the door
and quickly hit the Freezard with a punch to kill it. Now hit the ice
surrounding the switch with a Fire Arrow. This will make a platform rise up
that you can take to reach the bottom level. Before you leave, use the Lens
of Truth to find a series of small blocks that lead upward. Jump your way
through them and at the top you'll find a treasure chest with a fairy in it
(7). Now put on the Bunny Hood and leave the room. Jump across the gap, then
take out the Fire Arrows. You can kill the first Freezard with your sword if
you want to, but melt the other two as well as the ice block blocking the
third one with Fire Arrows. A treasure chest will then appear revealing a
key. Now go through the door to the large, spacious room.

Hit the ice around the red-framed door with a Fire Arrow. Enter the door and
kill the White Wolfos on the other side, then open the door with icicles on
either side. Hit the ice blocks with Fire Arrows and kill the White Wolfos.
Now step on the switch to reveal a treasure. Put on the Goron Mask and slide
the block so that you can jump to the ledge as Young Link. Open the chest to
find a fairy (8). Next, position the block so that you can jump to the pillar
to the left of the hole you bombed earlier. Take off the Goron Mask and jump
to that pillar and then jump to the next pillar, which has a crate on it. Put
the Goron Mask on again and pound the crate to reveal another fairy (9). Now
position the block so that you may jump to the next ledge and go through the
door. In the next room, jump off the ledge to the top of the block and then
from there jump to the next ledge. The jars will fly at you, so hit them with
your sword so they don't do damage. Open the treasure chest for another fairy
(10). Now drop down and exit the room.

Go to the left and you should find a green-framed door with ice around it.
Hit it with a Fire Arrow and enter. First, kill the three Freezards with Fire
Arrows. This will reveal a treasure chest. Jump across the ledges to reach
it. Open it to release a fairy (11). Next, hit all three torches with Fire
Arrows to unlock a door. Open that door and you'll find a switch. Put on the
Goron Mask and pound the switch to make the pillar shoot to the top of the
room. Now exit the room and take off the Goron Mask. Drop down and put on the
Goron Mask again. Find the door and open it. Now just roll past the Red
Bubbles and go up the stairs. Open the door to your left.

Yet again, jump across the gap with the Bunny Hood and enter the next room.
Hit the Real Bombchu with an arrow, then step on the platform. Hit the
Freezard and then the switch with Fire Arrows. Jump off at the top and open
the door. Now go to your right and jump in the wooden passageway. Run through
it and climb up the ladder at the end. Now hit the ice with a Fire Arrow and
run up the stairs. Next, turn to the right and roll to the next ledge. Now
kill the two Eenoes inside with Fire Arrows and look for three icicles on the
ground. Use the Lens of Truth and look above them to find a fairy. Hit the
bubble it's in with an arrow and wear the Great Fairy Mask so it will come to
you (12). Now hit the ice in front of the cave with a Fire Arrow and enter.

In the next room, you will face two Dinofols. Use the same techniques you
used in the Woodfall Temple to defeat them. Once they die, two more fairies
will appear (13,14). Now continue on and open the next door. You should now
be on top of the pillar. Run across and open the unlocked door. You'll face
another Wizrobe, only this time he has more squares to hide behind. Use the
same technique you used before to beat him. Once you have killed the Wizrobe,
a door will open. Go through it and open the treasure chest on the other side
to receive the Boss Key.

Now retrace your steps until you're back on the second floor. Walk up to the
pillar wearing the Goron Mask and punch the blue section out of it. Now go to
the third floor and punch the blue section out of that part. Now you'll see
that the top of the platform can be reached by rolling up the snow. Do so.
Step on the platform and punch all of the snowballs to get them out of your
way and run up the stairs. Use the Goron Leap to cross the gap and then put
on the Deku Mask. Use the Lens of Truth and jump in the Deku Flower. Circle
around so you don't stop flying and you should eventually be able to see a
hidden alcove with a Deku Flower in it. Glide to it and open the treasure
chest for a fairy (15).

Now go back to the top of the platform and open the boss door.

--------------------------------
Masked Mechanical Monster: Goht
--------------------------------

At the start, you'll see Goht imprisoned in a block of ice. Hit the ice with
a Fire Arrow to melt it and Goht will run straight. Put on the Goron Mask and
follow him while rolling. Spikes should eventually come out of you. When they
do, charge at Goht and hit him with your body. Avoid the bolts of
electricity, boulders and falling stalactites that come down on you. When
Goht receives a few hits, he begins putting down bombs as well. If Goht is
knocked down by your attack, uncurl and punch him repeatedly. After a great
deal of hits, Goht will run wildly and crash into the wall, putting him out
of commission permanently.

With Goht dead, get the Heart Container and then run in the transporter for
Goht's remains. A cutscene will then begin in which Goht reveals that he is a
guardian. The majority of the snow then melts away and it becomes spring
again.

------------------------------------
Unlocking the Great Fairy of Wisdom
------------------------------------

You'll find yourself in Mountain Village. Play the Song of Soaring and go to
Snowhead. Run through the ice bridge again and defeat the Wolfos at the top.
From there, go right and you'll see a cave. Enter it and you'll see that it's
a Fairy Fountain. Run up to it and the 15 fairies will rejoin, reforming the
Great Fairy of Wisdom. As thanks for restoring her, the Great Fairy will give
you twice as much magic power.

------------
A New Sword
------------

Now play the Song of Soaring again to go to Mountain Village. Go in the
Mountain Smithy's house (it's the only one there) and pay 100 rupees to get
your sword reforged. Next, play the Song of Double Time however many times
are necessary to make it the next sunrise. Go back to the Smithy's house and
get your new sword, the Razor Sword. Next, go to Goron Village.

Go to the left and look on the leftmost wall for a cave. Enter it and put on
the Goron Mask. Talk to the giant Goron and he'll give you a Powder Keg.
Throw it up the ramps and then roll after it to get out of the cave. Carry it
out of Goron Village. Cross the bridges and just walk by the Wolfos. They
shouldn't be a problem. When you cross the last bridge, go to the right and
throw the Keg up the ramps and roll after it as you did in the Powder Keg
Shop. When you reach the top of the hill, place the Keg next to the giant
rock and wait for it to explode. Talk to the elder's son if you wish. When
the Keg explodes, it will destroy the rock. Run in the new entrance.

Now you're in the Goron racetrack. Talk to the Elder's son and tell him you
want to race. In order to race, roll so that you have spikes coming out of
you and try to keep the other Gorons from overtaking you. Avoid trees, the
walls and bomb flowers. Also avoid jumps as they will slow you down. If you
need more magic power, hit the green bottles to get magic. The prize for
winning is a bottle of gold dust.

After winning the Goron race, go back to the Mountain Smithy and give him the
Razor Sword and the gold dust. Play the Song of Double Time until it's the
final morning and reenter the Smithy's house. Talk to him and he'll give you
the Gilded Sword! You'll keep the Gilded Sword even if you go back in time.

---------------------------
Getting an Old Friend Back
---------------------------

Go to the Bomb Shop in Clock Town and wear the Goron Mask. Talk to the Goron
in there and buy a Powder Keg for 50 rupees. Next, play the Song of Soaring
and go to Milk Road. Place the Powder Keg down next to the giant boulder and
wait for it to explode. When it does, take off the Goron Mask and hit the
balloon holding Tingle. Buy the map to Romani Ranch and then enter Romani
Ranch.

Run up to the barn and talk to Romani after you run to Epona. She'll tell you
about the Poes that come down every year. Tell here you'll help save the
cows. You'll then practice hitting ten targets on horseback. After doing
this, Romani will teach you Epona's Song. Play the Song of Double Time and
wait outside the barn until it's 2 AM. Romani will then come outside and
prepare you. At 2:30 the Poes begin coming down. Use the map to locate them
and hit them with arrows. You must ride Epona while doing this as you're too
slow to hit them all on foot. If you run out of arrows, hit the bushes around
the ranch to get more. If you hold the Poes away from the barn until 5:30 AM,
you save the cows. When you save the cows, Romani will thank you and give you
a bottle of milk.

Next, play the Song of Double Time and look for Cremia outside the barn. Say
you'll ride to town with her and the two of you will ride to Clock Town in
her wagon. Along the way, you must go through the Gorman Track, where two
pursuers (the Gorman brothers) will ride after you attempting to get the
milk. Hit them with repeated arrows to push them away. Push one brother away
and then the other. Eventually, you'll exit the track and then you'll reach
Clock Town. Cremia will then give you the Romani Mask!

--------------------
Unfinished Business
--------------------

First, go to the Treasure Chest Room in East Clock Town and keep playing the
game until you get a heart piece.

Next, play the Song of Soaring to go to Milk Road. Call Epona and go to the
Gorman Stables. Accept their challenge of a race and beat them to get the
Garo's Mask!

Next, either save Kuome again or defeat Odolwa and then go to the Deku
Palace. From the entrance, make a left on the inside of the castle. Sneak
past all the guards to get a piece of heart.

Next, go to the passageway between the Southern Swamp and Termina Field.
You'll see a large black tree in the middle of the ground. Kill all the Bats
near the tree and then climb up the vine ladder to get a heart piece.

-------------
To the Ocean
-------------

Go to West Clock Town and talk to the guard to reach the exit to Termina
Field. From there, run down the steps and go forward. Play Epona's Song and
Epona will run to you. Mount her and then ride toward the fence. Jump over
the fence and then run down the passageway to the Great Bay.

--------------
The Great Bay
--------------

Get a running start on Epona and jump over the first block. Go in the grass
area to the left and then enter the Fisherman's Hut. Talk to the fisherman
and then exit. Ride Epona onto the beach and then dismount. If you look
across the ocean, you should see a building. Swim to it and hit the Owl
Statue there. Next, look for some seagulls circling around an area of the
water. Go to them and you'll find a Zora. Grab him and push him to shore.
After he climbs onto land and collapses, talk to him. He'll introduce himself
as Mikau, one of the Indigo-Gos and play a song for you. After he finishes
his song, play the Song of Healing and he'll turn into the Zora Mask.

Next, go to the cave opening next to the beach. Put on the Zora Mask and dive
into the water. Swim away from the beach and you should eventually see a
Like-Like. Kill it and then go in the cave behind it to enter Zora Hall.

----------
Zora Hall
----------

Walk forward and go to the right. Take the first right turn you can and then
make a left. Talk to Lulu, who is on the ledge and then look to the left to
find the Owl Statue. Hit it with your sword and then put on the Zora Mask. 
That's all you need to do here for now.

-----------------------
Getting the Stone Mask
-----------------------

Play the Song of Soaring and go to Clock Town. Enter the Trading Post in West
Clock Town and buy a Red Potion. Next, go to East Clock Town and exit the
town from there. Play Epona's Song and then ride Epona straight. In the next
cavern, keep riding Epona through the horde of Real Bombchus until you see a
circle of rocks to the right. Use the Lens of Truth to see a soldier in the
middle of them. Talk to him and then give him the Red Potion. Revitalized, he
will give you the Stone Mask in thanks.

--------------------------------------------
Retrieving the Zora Eggs: Pirate's Fortress
--------------------------------------------

Play the Song of Soaring and go to the Great Bay Coast. Put on the Zora Mask
and swim in the direction of the Owl Statue. Eventually, you should reach a
stone wall. Swim alongside the wall until you find a Zora. Talk to him to
learn of the pirates. After speaking to him, dive underwater and go back the
way you came. You should see some crates with skulls and crossbones on them.
Tatl will show what they are. Hit the second one from the left and then go
through the passage.

Now you're on the outside of the Pirate's Fortress. Walk out of the water and
you'll see a cutscene of the roaming guards. When the first guard sails by,
dive into the water and swim to the left. You should see a ramp by the wall.
Land on it and walk the ramps up to the surface. When you reach the surface,
take off the Zora Mask and put on the Stone Mask. Run up the remaining ramps
and stand next to the sun switch. Wait for the guards to pass, then put on
the Goron Mask and pound the switch. This will open one of the underwater
pipes. Put on the Zora Mask and dive underwater. Swim across the lake to
reach the pipe and enter it.

Next, swim to the end of the passageway, then dash into the plank. Land on
the ground, then push the block to the right forward. Follow the path to the
left and pull the block backward. Now retrace your steps to where the first
block is. Take the other fork now and break down the planks. Follow the path
and you should reach a grate. Use the air current to push yourself upward,
then swim away at the top. Dive relatively deep into the water, then swim
into the passageway. Swim over the spiked balls and under the current coming
from the side. At the end, grab the ledge and then open the door.

Now swim to the ramp and walk up it. Switch to Goron Link and destroy the
barrels on the bottom level for some coins. Then, go up the stairs and
destroy the barrels there. You'll reveal a switch. Hit it and the door
blocking the heart piece should open. Switch to Young Link and use the Bunny
Hood to reach it in time. Hit the switch inside the cell to open the door
again. Next, go up the stairs and find the crystal switch. Put on the Zora
Mask and hit it with the Boomerang. A chain-link fence blocking a pipe will
rise momentarily. Dive in the water and swim into the pipe, being careful not
to hit the mines.

Next, swim along the right wall to avoid the mines and the current. At the
end, climb up the ladder and then hit the switch. A crystal switch will then
be revealed. Step on the grate and hit the switch with a boomerang. Ride the
water up, but jump off after you reach the next floor. Climb up the ladder
and look through the telescope to see the inside of the Fortress. Next, turn
toward the main room and use the boomerang to make the two mines in front of
you collide and explode. Then hit the crystal switch with a boomerang and go
out the door.

You're on the outside again. Take off the Zora Mask and put on the Stone
Mask. Now run along the wall and go up the ramp to enter the Pirate's
Fortress. Inside the Fortress, wear the Stone Mask at all times.

First, go up to one of the guards and take a picture of her. Then run up to
the ladder in the middle of the room and climb it. Wait for the guard to get
off the bridge onto the crow's nest you're standing on, then cross the bridge
and open the door behind the pillar. Run forward and you'll see a bee fly
into the chamber. Listen to the pirates' conversation and then fire an arrow
at the beehive in the room. The pirates will run out of the room, leaving it
unguarded. Exit the room and drop off the right side of the platform. Enter
the door next to you and run to the throne. You should see a treasure chest
in the center. Open it to get the Hookshot. Now look at the water tank. You
should see a glowing circle in it. That's a Zora Egg. Take out the Hookshot
and aim for the wood block above the tank. Fire the Hookshot, then put on the
Zora Mask. Dive into the water and put the egg into a bottle. Next, get out
of the water and go out the door.

Put on the Stone Mask and follow the stairs to the ground level. Fire the
Hookshot at the target pillar in front of you and then fire it at the next
pillar. Go through the entrance. In the next room, hit the guard with
something and then run by her and open the door. Now, you'll fight a pirate.
Fight her like you would fight a Wolfos. The pirate will retreat after she
has been hit three times. Now go through the newly opened door. Break the
jars to get health and ammo. Kill the Desbreko to kill all of the Skullfish
in the tank. Now get the egg. You can open the chest for a Red Rupee. Now get
out of the tank and open the door.

You should see some pillars on the other side of the room. Put on the Stone
Mask, then run down and use the Hookshot to get up the pillars. After
reaching the second pillar, enter the door that's more to the center of the
room. In the next room, run past the guard and open the door. You'll face
another pirate. Defeat her and go through the door. Use the same process to
enter the tank and retrieve the Zora Egg. Now get out of the tank and play
the Song of Soaring. Go to the Great Bay Coast.

Climb up the ladder and enter the Marine Research Lab. Talk to the old man
and then climb up the ladder to the top of the aquarium. Stand above the
water and then drop the three eggs into the water. Now exit the Lab and go
back to the Pirate's Fortress. Go to where the sun switch is and change into
Young Link. Use the Hookshot to hit the target on the side of the fortress. Put 
on the Stone Mask and then enter.

From the start, go to the left and use the Hookshot to make your way up the
Fortress. Once you reach the third pillar, wait for the guard to come across
the bridge and then hit her. Run across the bridge and open the door on the
other side. Run to the edge of the platform and hit the three guards with
arrows. Then drop down and open the treasure chest to find a silver rupee!
Now go up the other ramp and open the door to start a fight with a third
pirate. After she is defeated, open the newly unlocked door. Get the fourth
Zora Egg and play the Song of Soaring and go to the Great Bay Coast. Put the
egg in the aquarium in the lab.

----------------------------------------
Retrieving the Zora Eggs: Pinnacle Rock
----------------------------------------

Go to the fisherman's hut and use Z-Targeting to focus on the seahorse. Talk
to it and the fisherman will ask if you have a picture of a guard. Give it to
him and he'll give you the seahorse. Leave and then enter the ocean again.
Wear the Zora Mask and swim to the right of the Research Lab. You should
eventually see two large pillars. Swim in between them and dive to the
bottom. Then walk forward to reach the Pinnacle Rock area.

Dive down again and release the seahorse from its bottle. Talk to the
seahorse and follow it. Do not swim after it, just run. At the end, the
seahorse will ask you to kill the sea snakes and release his friend. Now go
forward. You'll see a bunch of holes in the rock. Sea snakes are in each one
of them. Lure them out by swimming close to their holes and then hit them
twice in the body (not the head) with either a barrier attack or a boomerang
to kill them. Eggs are in three of the holes and the other seahorse is in
another one. Once the two seahorses are reunited, talk to them to get a heart
piece!

Now go back to the Marine Research Lab and put the three remaining eggs into
the aquarium. Then jump off the aquarium and run up to the glass. The eggs
will hatch and the Zora will come out into a formation that looks like sheet
music. With the Zora Mask on, take out the Ocarina and play the corresponding
song. With that, you learn the New Wave Bossa Nova. Now exit the Lab and play
the Song of Soaring to go to Zora Cape. Play the New Wave Bossa Nova for Lulu
and she'll call a giant turtle. After it finishes talking to you, climb onto
it using the Hookshot to latch onto the tree on the turtle's back. The turtle
will then take you to the Great Bay Temple.

---------------------
The Great Bay Temple
---------------------

First, light all the torches in the first room to reveal a treasure chest.
Open it to find a fairy (1). Next, open the door and put on the Zora Mask.
Dive in the water and check under the ledge you were just on and you'll find
another fairy (2). Now look around. You should see a platform moving up and
down to the left of where the door you came in on is. Get on it and take off
the Zora Mask. Put on the Bunny Hood and jump to the ledge adjacent to the
wall. Kill the Skulltula and then get the fairy that comes out of it (3).
Next, get the rupees and dive into the water. Find an island with a little
key in it and get on it. Turn into Goron Link and turn the key until it turns
off the water. After that, turn into Zora Link and dive underwater. Look in
the corner behind the first key to find a second key. Turn it and water will
come out of a new pipe. Now turn the first key back so the waterwheel works
again. Go to the rising platform closest to you and ride it up. Jump off at
the top to the next ledge. Then turn to the pipe you turned on and wait for
the water to be low to jump. Ride the water to the top and then jump off.
Follow the path to the next room.

In this room, jump off the ledge into the whirlpool. You should see that you
can get off onto ledges and then climb up ladders to reach a different ledge.
Do so and one of the ledges has a barrel on it. Break it and a fairy will be
revealed (4). Dive into the whirlpool again and dive underwater. Get swept
into the first opening and you'll be in a room with some Skullfish. Dive to
the floor and take them out with Boomerangs. Surface and climb onto the only
platform you can reach. Take off the Zora Mask and use the Hookshot to latch
onto the treasure chest. Open the treasure chest to get the map. Next, hit
the jars across the water with the Hookshot. One of them has a fairy in it
(5). Continue exploring and you should find an opening with two Dexihands in
them. Hit them with boomerangs and go through the opening. Follow the passage
until you reach some Bio Deku Babas. Hit them with Boomerangs to cut them in
half, then surface. If you turn around, you'll see one final Bio Deku Baba.
Hit with arrows to kill it and a treasure chest will appear. Hop across the
pads to reach the chest. Open it to get a fairy (6). Now go out the door.

In the next room, fire an arrow at the Real Bombchu next to the treasure
chest. Next, hit the Bio Deku Babas in front of you with arrows until they
die. After that, hit the Dexihand in the center of the pool with arrows or a
Boomerang. Then put on the Zora Mask and jump across the pads to reach the
treasure chest on the other side of the room. Open it to receive the Compass!
Next, dive in the water and open the treasure chest for a key. Surface and go
back to where you entered the room. In one of the river next to the door,
there are two Dexihands. Kill them with Boomerangs from the ledge and then
hit the jar with a Boomerang. Put on the Great Fairy Mask to make the fairy
come to you (7). Do not dive in the river when you this. After you get the
fairy, jump in the river and let it take you to the whirlpool.

Dive to the bottom of the whirlpool and you'll see a jar. Hit it with a
Boomerang and a fairy will appear. Now surface and climb onto one of the
ledges. Put on the Great Fairy Mask and the fairy will come to you (8). Dive
to the bottom of the whirlpool again and then swim in the red-tinted hallway.
Kill the Shell Blades and go to the left. Surface when you reach the wall.
Climb onto the platform in the corner and kill the Octorok if you need to.
Next, take off the Zora Mask and hit the Real Bombchu with an arrow. Put on
the Zora Mask again and swim to the pipe. Land on top of the submerged pipe
and walk up the pipe to the door. Open the door and you'll enter a new room.
Kill the Green and Yellow Chuchus until your magic meter and your quiver are
full. Then open the next door.

In this room, look up and a Wart will come down from the ceiling. The Wart is
a giant eye covered by little eyeballs. The eyeballs protect it from damage.
Hit the eyeballs with Fire Arrows to knock them off the Wart and then kill
them with your sword. Eventually, enough eyeballs will be dead so that you
can hit the Wart with a Fire Arrow to its open eye. When you do this, the
Wart will shake off any remaining eyeballs it has and then start charging at
various places around the room. If the Wart has its eye open when it's
charging, hit with a Fire Arrow. Repeat until it's dead. Once the Wart dies,
a treasure chest will appear. Open it to get the Ice Arrows!

Now exit and go back to the room with the Octoroks. Kill the Real Bombchu
before he becomes a problem, then swim to one of the platforms. As Young
Link, hit the Octorok in front of you with an Ice Arrow and use it as a
stepping stone to the larger platform. Turn the key until the water starts to
pump through the pipe. Now go to the area with the whirlpool by going through
the blue vent. Surface and then go to the ladder covered by water. Hit the
water with a ice arrow. Climb the ladder and then open the door at the top.
Next, latch onto one of the barrels on the yellow platform with the Hookshot.
Then kill the Blue Tektite and fire Ice Arrows into the water to create
platforms. Jump across them to reach the green platform. Now pull the key and
look up. You should notice there is a hole in the grate near the yellow
platform. Go back to the yellow platform and then make ice platforms under
the hole. Latch onto the target with the Hookshot and then open the chest on
top of the grating for a fairy (9).

Now go back to where you got the Map. Go to the treasure chest and use the
Ice Arrows to create platforms to the door. Open the door and in the next
room, lure the Blue Chuchu near the platform and then hit it with an ice
arrow. It will turn into a block of ice. Climb it and then jump to the
platform. Kill the Real Bombchu quickly and then turn the key. Now go to the
room that had the compass in it. You'll see a ledge with some icicles on it.
Use Ice Arrows to reach the ledge and then hit the icicles with your sword.
Then hit the block of ice with a Fire Arrow. Open the door to fight a Gekko
again!

In this fight, the Gekko will call forth a slew of green bubbles down. They
will all hop at you. Put on the Bunny Hood and run around them all to get to
the Gekko. Hit him with your sword and he'll jump to the top of the room
along with the bubbles. Now run. You should see the bubble's shadow on the
ground eventually. Get as far away from it as possible. If the bubble touches
you when it lands, you'll be dragged inside where the Gekko will beat you up.
However, if it doesn't hit you, it will go back up. After you hear the bubble
go back up, aim with an Ice Arrow at the bubble and hit it. Repeat this until
the Gekko is dead. When the Gekko dies, it will turn into a frog. Put on the
Don Gero Mask and talk to it. Next, go through the opened door and follow the
hallway to get the Boss Key. Now jump through the hole in the grate and go
back to the room with the whirlpool. Surface and get out of the water.

Then go back to the first big room with the keys and the pipes. Look to your
right and you'll see another pipe has started. Hit the target above the pipe
with the Hookshot and you'll fall on the pipe. Next, jump on the platform and
turn the key. After that pipe turns on, go to the key just above the water
and turn it to turn the first pipe off. Now go back to the room with the
whirlpool. Next, swim into the yellow-tinted hallway above the bottom of the
pool. Keep to the right to avoid the Dexihands. In the next big room, avoid
the mines and ignore the Skullfish. Kill them using the barrier if you must.
Ride the elevator to the top and jump off onto to the rotating cylinder. Jump
off the cylinder onto the next platform. As you ride the platform to the next
ledge, look around and you should see a little alcove with a torch and a
treasure chest in it. Hit the torch with the Hookshot (it's more difficult
than it sounds) and then open the treasure chest for a fairy (10). Next, go
back up to the platform and then jump onto the next ledge. Hit the water with
an Ice Arrow when you reach the end of the ledge. Next, run across the first
half of the stone, then make a right. When you reach the center of the
cylinder, go to the right a bit and you should be able to see a treasure
chest in a hallway in the wall. Latch onto the chest with the Hookshot and
open it for another fairy (11). Now, go back down to the cylinder and run
across. Then run across the remaining half of the long stone and jump across
the gap to reach the door. Open it.

In the next room, jump to the bottom and jump in the hole the other half of
the seesaw would go in. Wearing the Zora Mask, dive in and you'll see a
barrel. Swim into it and smash it with your head to break it to reveal a
fairy (12). then run to the seesaw that you can get to from the ground (and
is not the one next to the door). Hit the ice above the seesaw with a Fire
Arrow to bring the seesaw up. After you do that, jump onto the next seesaw
and hit the ice above it with a Fire Arrow. Jump onto the platform and turn
the key. Kill the Real Bombchu and then put on the Zora Mask. Navigate the
pipes to the fenced-in section of the room. Break the pots, then use the
Hookshot to reach the treasure chest. Open it for a fairy (13). Now drop to
the bottom and go to the one seesaw you haven't put down yet. Hit the ice
above it with a Fire Arrow, then jump onto the ledge and run to the door.
Open it, and you'll find you're back in the room with the map.

Dive to the bottom and swim in the yellow-tinted hallway. Stay at the bottom
and look for a blue vent. You'll see a fairy in a bubble. Hit it with a
boomerang. Next, look to where you came in from and you should see a pipe.
Swim to it and step on it. As you walk up the pipe, look under the big
platform and you'll see another fairy in a bubble. Hit it with a boomerang.
When you reach the surface, take off the Zora Mask and put on the Great Fairy
Mask to make the two fairies come to you (14,15). Next, go to the end of the
pipe and turn the key. A spout will then turn on. Use the water to reach the
Boss Door and open it.

-------------------------------
Gargantuan Masked Fish: Gyorg
-------------------------------

This fight isn't that much trouble if you know what you're doing (and if you
have some fairies). First, look around the water until you see some bubbles.
This is where Gyorg is. Run up to Gyorg and hit him with an arrow or a
boomerang to stun him. While he's stunned, put on the Zora Mask and dive in
the water to hit Gyorg with your barrier. Once you hit him, quickly swim out
of the water and onto the ledge. Keep in mind that Gyorg has a few attacks.
First, he will jump out of the water on one side of the ledge and then dive
in on the other side. This can damage you if you're not careful. Next, he
rams the ledge so you go flying. For this reason, stay away from the edges.
Also, if you fall into the water, Gyorg has the nasty habit of swallowing you
for major damage. After Gyorg takes a few hits, he will begin sending out
fish to attack you in the water. Just maintain your strategy and Gyorg should
die in no time. In the event that you run out of magic, there are magic
bottles in the corners of the pool, but they are risky to go to.

With Gyorg dead, get the Heart Container and then enter the transporter to
receive Goht's remains. The water then becomes clean again and you find
yourself on Zora Cape again.

-------------------------------------
Restoring the Great Fairy of Courage
-------------------------------------

Play the Song of Soaring and go to the Great Bay Coast. Swim to the coast and
then enter the cave to the right. When you reach the other side of the cave,
you should see some floating land to your right. Jump to the first ledge and
then jump across the next ledges. Use the Hookshot to reach the islands with
palm trees on them. At the end of the path, you'll see a rock blocking a
cave. Place a bomb at the rock and let it explode. Next, enter the cave and
you'll find yourself in the Fairy Fountain. Reunite the fairies and the Great
Fairy of Courage will double your defensive strength as thanks.

-----------------
Waterfall Rapids
-----------------

Exit the cave and then go to the beach again. Run past the two Zoras and you
should eventually reach a tree root. Climb onto it and look up. You should
see a ledge with a palm tree on it. Use the Hookshot to latch onto the palm
tree and then latch onto all the palm trees following it. At the end of the
string of palm trees, you'll find a cave. Enter it and you'll be in Waterfall
Rapids.

In Waterfall Rapids, put on the Zora Mask and dive into the water. You should
see a beaver swimming on the surface of the water. Get close to him and use
Z-Targeting and he'll swim to the bottom. Dive to the bottom of the water and
talk to him. He'll challenge you to swim through 20 rings in 2 minutes. To do
this, stay behind the beaver and swim through each spinning ring. If you miss
one, go back and get it. After you do this, a second beaver will come down
and challenge you to swim through 25 rings in 2 minutes. Do this in the same
way you did the previous challenge and you'll get a bottle! You may challenge
the beavers again to get a heart piece.

Next, exit Waterfall Rapids and drop down from the ledge you're on. You
should see a waterfall to your right. Dive into the water and swim to the
bottom. You should see some Skullfish and a Like-Like. Kill them by using the
barrier. When the Like-Like dies, it will reveal a heart piece. Get it.

Now surface and get on the ledge.

-------------------------
Reuniting the Frog Choir
-------------------------

Next, play the Song of Soaring to go to Woodfall. Raise the Woodfall Temple
from the water and enter it. Go to the room where the Gekko is and defeat it
to reveal a frog. Talk to the frog while wearing the Don Gero Mask and it
will go to the mountain. Next, defeat Odolwa again to restore the water.
Leave Woodfall and drop off the edge to dive into the water. Swim to the left
and then talk to the frog on the other side of the cave while wearing the Don
Gero Mask and it will leave. Next, play the Song of Soaring to go to Clock
Town. Wear the Don Gero Mask and go to the Laundry Pool. Talk to the frog and
it will go to the mountain. Next, play the Song of Soaring to go to Snowhead.
Reenter the Snowhead Temple and defeat Goht. When you reappear, wear the Don
Gero Mask and talk to the frogs. They'll sing and you'll get a heart piece.

Next, go to the bridges between Mountain Village and Goron Village. Wear the
Zora Mask and dive to the bottom of the lake. Walk around and you should see
a treasure chest near the ramp to the surface. Open it to find a heart piece.

-------------------------
Getting the Giant Wallet
-------------------------

Next, play the Song of Time to go back to the first day. Following that, use
the Song of Soaring to go to the Great Bay Coast and enter the hut next to
the Fisherman's Hut.

In the first room, look for a crack in the wall. Place a bomb down in front
of it and let it explode. Before entering the resulting tunnel, stand at the
edge before the drop and take out the arrow. Hit the two Golden Skulltulas in
the tunnel with arrows and then use the Hookshot to get the tokens (1,2).
You'll have to go to the bottom of the tunnel to get the second token. Next,
take out the Fire Arrows and look up. You should see some spider webs. Hit
them with Fire Arrows and then kill the Golden Skulltula. Get the token with
the Hookshot (3).  Next, use the Hookshot to reach the target over the door
past the gate. Open the door and go forward.

Hit all the spider webs with Fire Arrows. Next, put on the Goron Mask and hit
the two open vases to reveal Golden Skulltulas. Kill them and get the tokens
(4,5). Next, look up and you should see a Golden Skulltula on the rafter.
Kill it (6). Look to the skull masks above the staircase and you should see a
Golden Skulltula crawl out of one of them. Kill it (7). Next, go down the
stairs and hit the spider webs with Fire Arrows. One of them has a hole
beyond it. Hit the Golden Skulltula inside and use the Hookshot to get the
token (8). Next, climb the structure to the right of the wall. At the top is
a jar with a Golden Skulltula in it (9). Next, drop down and go to the next
door. Look at the skull mask and a Golden Skulltula will crawl out of it.
Kill it (10). Now go to the base of the steps. Face the wall and aim your bow
to the gap between the top of the wall and the ceiling. You should see a
Golden Skulltula a little to your left. Hit it with an arrow and use the
Hookshot for the token (11). Now go back to the first door you come to on the
lower level. You should see a large vase. Hit it either with a Goron Punch or
by rolling into it and a Golden Skulltula will come out (12). Now go up the
stairs and hit the door with cobwebs over it with a Fire Arrow. Enter it.

In this room, search the gap between the wall and the ceiling on the right
side to find a Golden Skulltula (13). Next, hit the picture on the far wall
with a Fire Arrow. It will drop to the ground and reveal a Golden Skulltula
(14). Then go to the drawer and use the Goron Mask to help you pull away the
middle section of the drawer to reveal a hole with another Golden Skulltula
in it (15). Next, go to the bookcase on the northwestern corner from the door
you came in from. As Goron Link, push the bookcase to the side and kill the
two Golden Skulltulas (16,17). Run to the bookcase along this wall and you
should see a Golden Skulltula on top. Kill it (18). Hit the picture on this
wall with the Hookshot to bring it down. Now go to where the Stalchild is or
was on the bookcase. Look for a space with no books and climb up it. Jump
across the bookcases until you reach the hole you made earlier on the other
side of the room by hitting the picture. Hit the Golden Skulltula inside the
hole with an arrow and get the token with the Hookshot (19). Now exit the
room.

Go down the stairs and then hit the first door you come to with a Fire Arrow.
Open it. First, hit the pictures with the Hookshot. A Golden Skulltula is
behind one of them (20). Next, hit the cobwebs with Fire Arrows. A Golden
Skulltula is behind one in the gap between the wall and the ceiling (21).
Then, search the vases and find one that's open. Hit it hard and then kill
the Golden Skulltula that comes out (22). Next, look above the table for an
iron cage that holds three of them. Hit the table with a Goron Pound and then
kill the three Golden Skulltulas (23,24,25).

Exit the room and then go to the end of the hallway. Hit the door with a Fire
Arrow, then enter. Once inside, hit the Skulltula with an arrow and then kill
the Black Boe that is coming toward you. Next, look up and you should see a
spider web on the rafter. Hit it with a Fire Arrow and then kill the Golden
Skulltula under it (26). Next, go forward and kill the Golden Skulltula
behind the tree (27). Next, walk up the tree and then hit all the jars above
the rafters. One of them has a Golden Skulltula in it (28). Next, drop down
and then use the Fire Arrows to hit the remaining spider web. Next, put on
the Goron Mask and hit the two wooden crates. One of them has a Golden Skulltula
in it (29), the other one has a hole in it. Run through the hole
into the tunnel and turn around to find a Golden Skulltula (30).

Now go to the entrance of the Skulltula House. If it is the First Night, you
will see a man there. Talk to him and he'll give you the Giant Wallet!

---------------------------
Getting the All-Night Mask
---------------------------

Play the Song of Soaring to go to Clock Town. Enter North Clock Town and save
the old woman's bag at midnight on the First Day. Next, play the Song of
Double Time until it is the final night. Go to West Clock Town and wait until
10 PM. Enter the Curiosity Shop and buy the All-Night Mask for 500 rupees.

Next, play the Song of Time and then wait until 8 AM. Enter the Stock Pot Inn
and put on the All-Night Mask. Talk to Anju's grandmother and listen to the
story "The Carnival of Time". Answer "On the eve of the festival" to get a
heart piece. Then listen to the story, "The Four Giants". Answer "I dunno" to
get another heart piece.

--------------------------
Getting the Mask of Truth
--------------------------

Go to Woodfall and then go into the Swamp. Use the Deku Flowers from the
ledge with the entrance to Woodfall and you should see a shack on the ground.
Drop down to it and hit the web over the door with a fire arrow. Now enter.
In the first room, pick up the rocks and put bugs into two bottles. Now talk
to the Skulltula to learn of his plight. After you finish, open the door.

Run down the ledge and search the water for a Golden Skulltula. Hit it (1).
Next, you should see a patch of dirt on the wall. Put a bug down in front of
it and it will crawl up to unearth another Golden Skulltula (2). Now open the
nearest door. In this room, you should see a sleeping Deku Shrub to the left
of you and a few jars to the right of you. Hit the jars and a Golden
Skulltula will be under one (3). Next, roll into the large jars next to the
wall and you'll find to Golden Skulltulas (4,5). After doing that, go up the
sleeping Deku Shrub and play the Sonata of Awakening to wake it up. Slash
through the area that the Deku Shrub exits through and kill the Golden
Skulltula at the end (6). Now use the Deku Flower to reach the upper ledge
and kill the Golden Skulltula on the wall (7). Next, use the Hookshot or
arrows to knock down the hives on the ceiling. Two of them will have Golden
Skulltulas in them (8,9). Next, pick up the rock on the upper ledge and put a
bug in a bottle. Open the door on the ledge.

In the next room, hit the crystal switch to create a ladder. Next, run to the
right and hit the Golden Skulltula above the hole in the wall with the
Hookshot (10). Next, hit the Golden Skulltulas on the pillar next to you and
on the ladder (11,12). After that, aim up and hit the hives on the ceiling. A
Golden Skulltula is in one (13). Next, put on the Bunny Hood and jump to the
hole in the wall. Run to the end and open the door. In the next room, kill
the two Golden Skulltulas in the grass (14,15) and then ram into the tree.
This will knock down three more Golden Skulltulas (16,17,18). Next, look to
the ceiling and hit the hives. A Golden Skulltula is in one of them (19). Now
exit the room and then drop down from the hole to the floor. Exit the room.

Upon exiting the room, look to the left a little and you should see a Golden
Skulltula on the pillar. Hit it with the Hookshot (20). Next, run to the
right and reach the jars at the end. A Golden Skulltula is under one of them
(21). After that, search the wall for another mound of dirt. Let another bug
loose and kill the emerging Golden Skulltula (22). Next, enter the nearby
door. Kill the Golden Skulltula on the far wall (23) and then ram into all of
the crates. Golden Skulltulas are in two of them (24,25). Climb up the ladder
then aim at the top of the monument. You'll see a Golden Skulltula (26).
Next, run to the door at the top and kill the Golden Skulltula behind the
torch (27). Open the door and run to the left. Kill the Golden Skulltulas on
the wall and on the pillar next to you (28,29). Now go back to the Deku
Flower. Use it and the one in the center of the room to reach the other side
of the room. Run to the right and you'll find a third mound of dirt on the
wall. Place the bugs in the mound and a Golden Skulltula will come out (30).

Now drop down and go up the ramp. Open the door and talk to the uncursed man
to receive the Mask of Truth.

----------------
Ikana Graveyard
----------------

Play the Song of Time and go to the East Clock Town exit. Then play Epona's
Song to call Epona. Ride straight, past all the Real Bombchus and jump over
the fences when you need to. After the jumps, go to the left and you should
see a low ledge. Get off of Epona and climb up the ledge. Next, run straight
to enter the Ikana Graveyard.

In the Ikana Graveyard, run straight along the path and you should see a
giant skeleton, Keeta, sleeping in front of you. Walk up to Keeta and play
the Sonata of Awakening. Keeta will wake up and rise to his feet. He will
then begin running along the path behind him. Put on the Bunny Hood and run
after him. At certain points in the path, a wall of fire rises and two
Stalchilds will rise from the ground. Quickly kill the Stalchilds and then
continue running after Keeta. If you hit Keeta with your sword, you'll start
a battle with him. Get in rather close so his hand thrusts will go over you.
Attack him with slashes from your sword when he's opened himself up. After a
few hits, Keeta will start jumping in the air. Move out of the way and then
hit him with a slash when he lands. Keeta will eventually die. Following his
death, Keeta will be put to rest and the fire surrounding the treasure chest
will die. Latch onto the chest with the Hookshot and open it to get the
Captain's Hat.

Next, drop down and go into the graveyard. Play the Song of Double Time and
put on the Captain's Hat. Find the three Stalchilds circling a grave and talk
to one of them. Tell him to open the grave and the three Stalchilds will
smash the grave. Drop inside the hole and then jump across the two ledges.
Enter the next room and kill all of the Bad Bats to get a treasure chest with
50 rupees in it. Next, light the three torches to unlock the door. Enter the
door to find an Iron Knuckle. Hit the Iron Knuckle with a sword slash to
awaken it and then battle it. Side step out of the way of its swings and then
hit it with a slash. Repeat until it's dead. Be aware that it will get faster
once the bulk of its armor falls off. With the Iron Knuckle dead, a curtain
will rise, revealing a Composer Poe. He will tell you of his betrayal at the
hands of his partner, Sharp. He will then teach you the Song of Storms. Leave
the grave and then play the Song of Double Time to make it the second day.

First, kill all of the bats in the graveyard and take off the Captain's Hat.
Talk to Dampe to receive 30 rupees. Go back to the graveyard and put the
Captain's Hat back on. Play the Song of Double Time and then talk to the
Stalchilds walking around the grave. Talk to them and tell them to open the
grave. Enter the hole and then use the Lens of Truth to see the door beyond
the fake wall. Open the door and use the Lens of Truth in the next room to
find all of the invisible Skulltulas and Bad Bats in the room. Bomb the wall
at the end of the room and then enter the next room to find another Iron
Knuckle. Kill it to reveal a treasure chest with a heart piece in it. Exit
the grave and play the Song of Double Time twice so that it's the final
night.

Talk to the Stalchilds surrounding the grave and tell them to open it. Jump
in the hole and take off the Captain's Hat. Walk to the end of the passageway
and walk down the stairs. Talk to Dampe and then lead him to the dirt patches
by _slowly_ walking so that the light from Tatl will guide him. Tell him to
dig whenever you reach a patch of dirt. Be aware that there is a Wallmaster
in this room. If you hear a growl, start running until you hear the
Wallmaster drop. Then quickly turn around and kill the Wallmaster. If you
need to bring Dampe to the two dirt patches that are off the ground, guide
him to one of the levitating platforms and then either climb up the blocks or
the ladder (depending on which patch you're bringing him to) and guide him
off the block to the dirt. Once Dampe reveals three parts of a Poe, they will
come together and create a Giant Poe. Dampe will run away, leaving you to
fight the Poe. Hit the Giant Poe with an arrow and then avoid its charge. If
it teleports, keep in mind that it will most likely go behind you, so turn
around and hit it with an arrow as it reappears. When the Giant Poe dies, a
treasure chest will appear. Open it to get a bottle. Now exit the grave and
play the Song of Time to go back to the first day.

-------------------
Cleansing the Land
-------------------

Go to Ikana Canyon and wear Garo's Mask in front of the wandering ghost.
He'll raise a tree on the ledge above you. Hookshot to it and then avoid the
Nijerons and boulders as you run forward. You should now be in the Ikana
Canyon area. Talk to Sakon (the grinning idiot prancing around) if you wish
and go to the wooden planks. Walk to where the Octoroks are between you and
the next platform. Then freeze them with Ice Arrows and jump across them to
reach the next platform. Next, look up and to your left to find a tree.
Hookshot to it and then hookshot to the next two trees so that you're on the
highest level. Hit the Owl Statue near you and then run toward the large
house.

Don't go close to any of the Gibdos. Instead, follow the path until you reach
the Spring Water Cave. Enter it and walk up to the center. A voice will ask
you why you're here and then reveal himself. Quickly play the Song of Storms
after he stops talking, and the Poe will be healed. With this, the water will
flow and the Music Box will play, killing the Gibdos.

Next, go to the house with the Music Box and wait for the little girl to leave
and walk up the hill. Quickly enter the house and climb down the stairs. Open
the cabinet on the far wall and quickly play the Song of Healing. The man will
be healed and the Gibdo Mask will drop to the ground. The little girl, Pamela,
will come in and embrace her father. Leave and then go to the well.

--------------------------
Getting the Mirror Shield
--------------------------

Before going down the well, make sure you have the Gibdo Mask, five Magic
Beans, and a bottle of Blue Potion (which you can buy from the Deku Salesman
near Ikana Canyon). Climb down the well and wear the Gibdo Mask. First, go
straight and talk to the Gibdo. Give him the Blue Potion and go through the
door. Turn to the left first and catch a fish in a bottle. Then go back to
the main hall and put on the Deku Mask. Fly over the spiked columns and then
put the Gibdo Mask back on after you land. Run to the left and talk to the
Gibdo there. Give him the fish and he'll go away. Enter the next door.

Go forward until you're just before the two eyes mounted on the wall. Put on the
Zora Mask and defeat the Dexihand with a boomerang. Then take off the Zora Mask
and put the Gibdo Mask back on and keep to the right to avoid the fire the eyes
shoot out. Then, put some hot water in the bottle. Go past the eyes again and
duck into the passage on the right and get some spring water, not a fish. Exit
and then go straight and talk to the next Gibdo, who will ask for the water.
Give it to him and then enter the door he blocked.

Before going far, look to your left and see a room blocked by spider webs. Burn
the webs with a fire arrow and then enter the room. Light the torch in the
center with another fire arrow and then put bugs in two of your bottles. Next,
go out of the room into the main hall and roll past the two spiked columns. Make
sure to keep moving so the Wallmaster doesn't nab you. When he lands, just turn
around and hit it. Next, keep going straight and talk to the Gibdo, then give
him the bug. Enter the room he was in and get a red fairy if you don't already
have one. Exit the room and then go to your left. Give that Gibdo the next bug
and keep moving. Kill the Fire Bats in this room and then use the Lens of Truth
to see a treasure chest containing a Purple Rupee. Exit the room and then go to
the very beginning of the well, but get a fish on your way. When you get to that
first room, go to the left and talk to the Gibdo and give him the five Magic
Beans, then enter the room behind him.

Defeat the Ice Bat quickly and then hit the Freezard that's in the room behind
it with a Fire Arrow. Enter the room and kill the two passive Deku Babas for
Deku Sticks. Get some water in a bottle if you need it. Then go back into the
main hall and run forward, but watch out for the Wallmaster. Go straight and
talk to the Gibdo and give him the fish. In the next room, go to your right
quickly and kill the Deku Babas and Mini Deku Babas until you have 10 Deku Nuts.
Now go back to the previous room and go to the left. Talk to the Gibdo and give
him the Deku Nuts and he'll allow you to pass. Next, go straight and kill the
Fire Bats, then roll past the eye on the right to enter a small room with some
bugs in it. Get a bug and then go back to the main hall. Go to the left and talk
to the Gibdo. Give him 10 Bombs and he'll allow you to pass. Go through the door
and roll into the center of the next room. You'll then fight a Big Poe. Defeat
it and put it in a bottle. Go back to the room with the Deku Babas in it and go
past the Deku Babas. Go to the left, then talk to the Gibdo and give him the
bug.

In the next room, follow Tatl to see where the three invisible Skulltulas are
and kill them with Fire Arrows. Next, light all the torches to reveal a treasure
chest with a Purple Rupee in it. Next, go all the way back to the room with the
hot spring water, unless yours hasn't cooled (which is unlikely). Fill a bottle
with it and then go back to the room with the Freezard and the Ice Bat. Run past
them and the spiked columns, avoid the Wallmaster and go to the right. Go
through the door and then run straight to the Gibdo and give him the hot spring
water. Go to the next room to find a cow. Play Epona's Song in front of it and
you'll get some milk. Next, go to the room with the Deku Babas and then go past
the Deku Babas and talk to the Gibdo and give him the Poe to gain access to the
next room. Kill the Wallmaster and then roll past the spiked columns. Talk to
the Gibdo and give him the milk. In the next room, light the four torches with
Fire Arrows to reveal a treasure chest, which contains the Mirror Shield. Get
the Mirror Shield then stand in the sunlight and assume a defensive position.
Reflect the sunlight so that it hits the sun symbol on the wall to reveal a
ladder. Then reflect the sunlight so that it hits the block above the newly
revealed ladder. Next, climb up the ladder and exit the well.

----------------------------
The Ancient Castle of Ikana
----------------------------

Go to Clock Town and buy a Powder Keg from the Goron in the Bomb Shop. Then play
the Song of Soaring to come back to Ikana Canyon and go to the right and run
toward the large structure. Run to the left o of the door and find an opening
that you can use to enter. Inside, turn to the left and hit the switch to reveal
some sunlight. Reflect it onto the block to make it disappear and then run
through the opening. Make sure you have the Gibdo Mask on.

Go through the front door and find the frozen eye switch closer to the left
blocked door. Hit it with a Fire Arrow to make the gate rise up and then go
through the door. In the next room, equip the Deku Mask, but don't put it on
yet. Hit the switch to make the giant block rise up and then run to the closest
Deku Flower. Put on the Deku Mask and dive into the Flower. When the block comes
back down, jump out of the Deku Flower and fly to the next Flower. When you
reach a pillar with a switch on it, fly to it and then take off the Deku Mask.
Step on the switch to open the door. Jump down and then enter the next room.

Put on the Deku Mask and dive into the Flower, then fly to your left and land on
the platform with the switch. Take off the mask and trigger the switch, then use
the Lens of Truth to see an invisible platform. Jump to it and kill the
Skulltula in front of you with the Hookshot. Jump onto the platform and then
pull the Hookshot out again. Hit the mine above you with it to knock it into the
other mine and blow them both up. Next, jump to the first platform in this room
and then put on the Deku Mask again. Fly to the door and open it. Take off the
Deku Mask and roll past the Blue Bubbles, then go up the stairs.

Open the door and go to the right and jump on the edge of the roof. You should
see a switch and a Deku Flower surrounded by fire below you. Hit the switch with
an arrow and then jump to the pillar with the Flower on it. Put on the Deku
Flower and fly toward the next pillar with a Flower on it and then to the pillar
with the Heart Piece. Next, take off the Deku Mask and drop down. Put the Gibdo
Mask back on and reenter the Castle. Take the same steps as before to get back
to the top of the castle.

Jump on the edge of the roof and walk around until you reach the front of the
castle. You should see a platform below you. Drop down onto it and then put on
the Deku Mask. Fly to the pillar and step on the switch to move a rock. Next,
take off the mask and put on the Gibdo Mask. Reenter the castle and hit the eye
closer to the right side of the room. The gates over that door will rise up,
allowing you to enter the room. Do so and then kill the Floormaster easily by
reflecting sunlight at it and the Floormasters it creates. Next, reflect
sunlight at the sun block to make it disappear, then run past the four Re-Deads
and open the door. In the next room, you fight a Wizrobe. This Wizrobe is
similar to the earlier one, but it fires bolts of flame that explode instead of
ice. If you hit a flame, you will fall and you will be burned. After the Wizrobe
is defeated, go through the door and run past the Re-Deads, then go up the
stairs.

Open the door at the top and then run to the right until you reach a little
crater. Put on the Goron Mask and place the Powder Keg on the crater and went
for the Keg to explode. When it does, take off the Goron Mask and put the Gibdo
Mask back on, then drop down the hole. Defeat the four Re-Deads by reflecting
sunlight at them and then reflect sunlight at the sun block to make it
disappear. Go through the passageway and break the four bottles in the next
room. After that, open the door and run forward. Eventually, someone will begin
talking to you and will reveal himself to be the king of the castle. He'll then
send two minions after you.

----------------------------
Mini-Boss: Skeleton Minions
----------------------------

These are easy to defeat. First, they'll attack in tandem. You can either block
the attack or you can take a hit to knock out one of them. When that one slumps
to the ground, quickly hit the other one with a couple sword slashes to knock it
down. With both of them down, shoot a Fire Arrow at a curtain blocking the
sunlight to remove it and allow the light to reach into the room. Next, reflect
the sunlight onto the skeletons as they're down.

Once both Skeletons are defeated, the King will step down from his throne and
attack you.

-------------------------
Mini-Boss: Igos du Ikana
-------------------------

Igos du Ikana has around four main attacks. First, he has a horizontal slash
that can surprise you, but doesn't do much damage. Next, he has a leaping slash
that does a little more damage, but still isn't anything to worry about. Third,
he has the ability to pull his head off and send it at you. If it touches you,
you will be paralyzed until you're hit. Running away generally only prolongs
your being paralyzed. Finally, his most damaging attack is a poison breath that
continually damages you if you're in range even if you block. To knock him out
of this, get far away and then shoot an arrow at him.

Be on the offensive in this battle and concentrate on trying to hit him.
However, make sure to stay near the sunlight so that you can put him away once
you knock him down. He does occasionally jump over your head when he's being
attacked, but he leaves himself wide open to attack when he does so. Just
reflect light onto him when he's knocked down to defeat him.

With Igos du Ikana defeated, you'll learn the Elegy of Emptiness and be called
upon to save Ikana. The Elegy of Emptiness allows you to create a shell of
yourself in whatever form you may be in (Young, Deku, Goron or Zora Link). Next,
leave the Castle of Ikana entirely and go to the outside. Go to Pamela's house
and walk around the right side of it, then go up the hill. Go to the right a
little and you'll see a stone ramp. Walk up it and enter through the cavern to
reach Stone Tower. Make sure you have a fair amount of bombs before entering.

------------
Stone Tower
------------

Put on the Bunny Hood before you begin. Jump across the blocks to reach the
ledge on the other side of the gap. Next, take the Hookshot and latch onto the
target above and to the left of you. Climb up to the top of the target and then
throw a bomb at the Beamos. Next, climb on top of the target and look up and
toward where the three blocks are in the gap. You should see another target on
the ledge above you. Use the hookshot to reach it and then play the Elegy of
Emptiness while standing on the switch. Now go to the first switch you came
across (the one past the three blocks in the initial gap) and put on the Goron
Mask. Play the Elegy of Emptiness while on the switch to put a different statue
on the switch. Next, take off the mask and use the Hookshot to reach the next
ledge and put on the Zora Mask. Stand on the switch and play the Elegy of
Emptiness. Next, take off the mask and go to the next ledge.

Run up to the gap where the three blocks now are and jump to each one, then jump
to the ledge on the other side. Next, use the Hookshot to reach the next target.
Instead of dropping down, look up to the next target and use the Hookshot to get
there. Hit the Beamos with a bomb and then step on the switch and play the Elegy
of Emptiness. Next, drop down and stand on the switch. Put on the Goron Mask and
play the Elegy of Emptiness. Then take the mask off and use the Hookshot to
reach the ledge above the one you were on before. Put on the Zora Mask and stand
on the switch. Play the Elegy of Emptiness, then take off the mask and put on
the Bunny Hood. Jump across the blocks and turn to the right when you reach the
other side. Look up a little and you should see a target. Latch onto it with the
Hookshot and pull yourself to it.

Next, drop off the target and walk straight from the target to the gap. Right
before you reach the gap, look up again and you should see another target. Latch
onto it with the Hookshot and then climb on top of it. Look up and to the right
to find another target. Hit that one with the hookshot and pull yourself up
there. Then, drop down from the target onto the ground and hit the Owl Statue.
One of the jars contains a red fairy if you need it. Next, turn to the target
and then go to the switch on the right. Play the Elegy of Emptiness, then put on
the Goron Mask and go to the switch on the left of the target. Play the Elegy of
Emptiness, then put on the Zora Mask and run to the switch in front of the
target. Play the Elegy of Emptiness one more time and then take off the Zora
Mask and put on the Bunny Hood. Jump from block to block until you reach the
entrance of the Stone Tower Temple. After that, go in.

-------------------
Stone Tower Temple
-------------------

Run to the end of the path and then kill the Real Bombchu and the Dragonflies.
Next, pull out the Bow and look above the gated door in front of you to find a
switch on the left eye of the statue. Shoot it and open the chest that appears
for a fairy (1). Go to the left and open the door. First, walk forward and kill 
the Real Bombchu. Then, put a bomb in front of the cracked wall and let it
explode to reveal a new area. Search the entire room for two more Real Bombchus
and then kill them. Next, find the large switch and put on the Goron Mask. Stand
on it and play the Elegy of Emptiness. Next, take off the Goron Mask and find
two more switches and play the Elegy of Emptiness on one as Young Link and on
another as Zora Link. Next, go to the area behind the cracked wall and break one
of the crates. You'll find a couple boxes behind the row of crates. Pick it up
and run to the last switch and then place the box on top of it. The gate will
open, allowing you to enter the courtyard.

Kill the Dragonfly and the Guay, then place a bomb on the little dark square
that doesn't have bushes on top of it. When it explodes, go to the right and run
down the stairs. At the bottom of the stairs, you'll find some statues and sun
block. Reflect sunlight onto the block to remove it, then put on the Goron Mask
and roll across the lava. Unroll on the other side and open the treasure chest
for the Dungeon Map, then turn around and kill the Armos that's probably
standing behind you. Next, kill the rest of the Armos in the room (either
standing in the lava or next to the chest) to reveal a new chest in the lava
that contains a key. Go back up the stairs and unlock the chained door.

In the next room, put on the Zora Mask and dive in the water. Avoid the mines
and find the Dexihand above the entrance to the tunnel at the bottom of the
pool. Let it throw you and you'll end up on a ledge with a chest containing a
small key. Next, dive in the pool and kill the Dexihand with a boomerang, then
enter the tunnel and follow it until you reach a larger pool. Dive and kill all
the Skullfish that come your way, then find a switch on the bottom surrounded by
mines. Knock the mines into each other and then step on the switch. After that,
surface and climb onto the ledge. Take off the Zora Mask and then take out the
Fire Arrows. Hit the switch above the door to reveal a treasure chest you can't
get to now. Next, step into the light and reflect the sunlight into the mirror
in front of you. Make it so the light is contained within the mirror and not
being reflected from the mirror to the wall. After doing this for a little
while, run forward and the mirror will give off the sunlight you gave to it. Run
in this stream and reflect the sunlight onto the sun block. There's a treasure
chest with the compass in it guarded by a Real Bombchu. Kill the enemy, then get
the compass. Next, turn around and go to the other side of the path and open the
locked door.

In the next room, put on the Goron Mask and punch away three parts of the pillar
and kill any of the Black Boes that get in your way. Next, take off the mask and
reflect the light onto the six sun symbols on the wall. One of them will reveal
a chest containing a fairy (2). Go back to the light and reflect the light onto
the right mirror on the pillar in front of you. Let the light collect for a
while, then run up to beam and reflect the light onto the sun block. Run through
the hall and defeat the Nijeron in front of the chest. Then, open the chest for
another fairy (3). Now go back to the light and reflect the light onto the left
mirror on the pillar in front of you. Let the mirror collect the light for a
while, then run forward and enter the beam of light and let the mirror to the
left collect it. Next, run to the beam from that mirror and reflect into the sun
block. Run through the new entryway and be aware that Nijerons are in front of
both of the crates. Both crates contain red rupees if you want them.

Go through the door and put on the Goron Mask in the next room. Climb down the
ladder and then pound on the round switch next to you to dissipate the flames
around a switch. Roll quickly to the switch and step on it before the flames
come back around it, in order to remove the flames from around a treasure chest.
Next, go back to the ladder and climb up it, then put on the Deku Mask. Dive
into the flower and fly to each of the vents in order to rise into the air. On
the way, you'll see a little ledge to the side with some rupees on it. Land on
it, then get the rupees and open the chest for a fairy (4). Eventually, you'll
reach another platform with a treasure chest. Open the chest for a fairy (5),
but watch out for the Real Bombchu that should attack you soon. Go through the
door to face the Garo Master.

The Garo Master is moderately easy. He leaves himself wide open to attack when
swings his sword so remember that. It's fine if you take a hit as long as you
get up swinging. After around five hits, the Garo Master will be bested. He'll
tell you how to flip the castle upside down and then die, leaving behind a
treasure chest with the Light Arrows in them. Go through the open door and then
jump on the ledge in front of you, then jump on the ledge with the Hiploop. Hit
it once with the Hookshot to take off its mask and then twice more with the
Hookshot to kill it. Drop off the ledge and look down to find a switch. Place a
bomb down on the grate on top of the switch and let it explode to trigger the
switch. Next, drop down and open the treasure chest that is revealed by the
triggering for a fairy (6). Use the hookshot to attach yourself to target on the
ceiling near the door you came in from, then jump on the ledge and jump to the
next platform. After that, open the door.

In this room, you'll face an Eyegore. Run up to the Eyegore and he'll stand up
and begin walking toward you. At this point, you have two options. You can
either stand where you are while guarding with your shield. The Eyegore will
bring his arms down when he gets close to you, making some rocks come up from
the ground and rain down on you. However, when he does this, his eye turns
yellow and you can hit it with an arrow or the hookshot. The alternative is to
run away when he walks toward you, then turn around and hit him in the eye with
a light arrow. His eye will turn yellow and he'll be frozen, allowing you to hit
him with the hookshot. Regardless of which method you use, after around four or
five hits the Eyegore will die and a chest will appear. Open it for another
fairy (7). Now go through the door at the end of the room to return to the first
room. Exit the temple and play the Elegy of Emptiness on the right switch, then
step on one of the two blocks still next to the ledge. Pull out the Light Arrows
and hit the red jewel with one to flip the temple upside down. After the cinema,
put on the Bunny Hood and jump from block to block until you reach the temple.

In the temple, go forward and then make a right. Walk up the ramp and then open
the door on the right. You'll find yourself in front of a sun block. Fire a
light arrow at it in order to remove it and then run through the hall. At the
end, put on the Deku Mask and dive in the flower. Fly forward and use the vent
to lift you and go to the right. You should see a ledge with a switch and a Deku
Flower. Land there and take off the mask. Step on the switch and play the Elegy
of Emptiness. Then, put the Deku Mask back on and dive into the flower. Fly to
the vent, and allow it to lift you up so you can reach the chest you just took
the flames off of. Be careful not to hit the mines and open the chest for a
fairy (8). Next, drop down to the platform that the Hiploop is on. Defeat it and
then take out the light arrows. Find the sun symbol on the side of the platform
you were just on and hit it with a light arrow. Then run toward the opening at
the end of the platform and step on the switch to reveal a chest. Run to it and
open it for a key. Put the Deku Mask back on and step on the vents to rise up
and you should find a ledge with a locked door in the top corner of the room.
Take care not to hit the mines and land on the ledge, then unlock the door.

Take off the mask and hit the jewel with a light arrow. Then, put on the Goron
Mask and go across the lava. Take off the mask and hit the jewel with another
light arrow to reach the door. In the next room, hit the jewel with a light
arrow immediately, then find the block and push it so that it is next to the
elevated portion in the middle. Then, hit the jewel with a light arrow. Push the
block to the left so that it falls off the elevated portion of the ground, but
is next to the elevated portion with the notch in it. Hit the jewel with a light
arrow and then push the block up to the elevated part and hit the jewel with a
light arrow. Push the block into the notch to open the door. Next, climb onto
the block and jump to the ledge with the door. Kill the Green and Yellow Chuchus
if you need arrows and magic.

In the next room, you face yet another Wizrobe. This Wizrobe is considerably
powerful and has some falling lava to help him. Fight him like you've fought him
before. Wait until he reveals himself, then run toward him and hit him. You may
want to run in a zigzag pattern or roll to limit the number of times you get hit
by falling lava. After three hits, he makes holographic copies of himself as
usual. Just look at all the squares until you can tell which one is the real one
and then run and attack. After three more hits, the Wizrobe dies and leaves
behind a treasure chest. Hookshot to it and open it to reveal a fairy (9). Go to
the next room and kill the Poe before putting on the Deku Mask and diving into
the Deku Flower. Fly to the other platform and then open the door to reach the
next room. Take off the Mask and use the hookshot to knock the mines into each
other. Put the Deku Mask back on and fly to the ledge the mines were blocked. Be
aware the jars will fly at you. Dive into the flower and then fly to the left
and land on the ledge and open the door. Kill the Blue Bubbles in the next room
and then break all the crates for supplies. Enter the next room to face Gomess.

Gomess is a powerful foe. His scythe is difficult to block or dodge and he
follows you wherever you go even if you have the Bunny Hood on. He also has a
pack of bats surrounding them that protect him from attacks. However, if you
shoot a light arrow at him, the bats will scatter, allowing you to run up to him
and hit him with a slash. Run away and roll to the left or right a couple times
to avoid his charging attack. Turn around and hit him with another light arrow
and repeat the process until he's dead. Next, open the door behind which the
Boss Key sits. Get it and then leave the room. Go back to the room with the Poes
and dive in the Deku Flower, turn to the left of the door you came in from and
you'll see a little tunnel. Fly there and take off the mask and put on the Bunny
Hood. Avoid all the Death Armos and you'll see a switch eventually. Step on it
and play the Elegy of Emptiness. Now, run to the chest and try to open it
without being stepped on by one of the Death Armos. Once you get the key out of
the chest, run out of the tunnel and jump back to the ledge with the Deku
Flower. Before leaving, open the door to your right and make a right. Open the
door at the end there and then hit the Death Armos with a light arrow to flip it
over, then jump to the ledge and slash it to kill it. Be aware it will implant
itself into the ground and then explode. Hit the switch and then use the
hookshot to latch onto the newly revealed chest and pull yourself up. Next, turn
around and hit the sun symbol with a light arrow to reveal a chest at the
entrance. Turn around again, unlock the door and face the Eyegore in the next
room.

With this Eyegore, you cannot drop back and shoot a light arrow at him and then
use the hookshot, because he fires a ray from his eye that brings up rocks when
it hits. Instead, run up to him and he'll bring his arms down and his eye will
turn yellow. Hit it with the Hookshot. Repeat this until he's dead. He'll leave
behind a chest with the Giant Mask in it. Now exit the way you came and drop to
the entrance. Turn around and open the chest for a fairy (10). Exit and then
jump across a few blocks and flip the temple over again. Go to the right and
open the door. Kill the Real Bombchu, then put on the Zora Mask and dive into
the pool. Swim to the part with the Dexihand and let it grab you and throw you
onto the ledge. Take off the mask and throw a bomb over the gate so that it is
near the crystal switch. When it goes off, it'll trigger the switch and reveal a
chest. Put the Zora Mask back on and swim to the other side of the pool. Dive to
the bottom and then swim toward the surface quickly so you rise out of the water
and slide onto the ledge. Take off the mask and hit the sun block with a light
arrow to get rid of it and then hit the Beamos with a bomb. Open the chest for a
fairy (11).

Next, go out the door and go down the stairs. Look for a hookshot target on the
ceiling and latch onto it. You'll find a chest on the ledge there. Open it for a
fairy (12). Now go back to the room with the large pool in it. Go to where the
three mines are flanking the switch at the bottom. Rise up a little and go to
the top of the platform above them and open the chest for a fairy (13). Now go
to the first room in the temple and climb down the ladder. Find the chest and
open it for a fairy (14). Now exit the temple and flip it over, then reenter the
temple and go to the room with the vents. Put on the Deku Mask and dive in the
flower, then fly into the center vent to rise up and enter a little ledge with a
chest in it, containing a fairy (15).

--------------------------------------
Rejoining the Great Fairy of Kindness
--------------------------------------

Exit the temple and play the Song of Soaring to go to Ikana Canyon. Put on the
Gibdo Mask and run to Pamela's house. Go around it on the right and you'll see a
cave to your right. Enter it to reach the Fairy Fountain. The fairies will join
together to reform the Great Fairy of Kindness, who will give you the Great
Fairy's Sword, which will help you in your further endeavors.

------------------------------
The End of Stone Tower Temple
------------------------------

Warp to Clock Town and wait until night at 10. Go to Milk Bar, and open the door
while wearing the Romani Mask. Then, go up to the counter and buy the Chateau
Romani. This will give you infinite magic until you go back in time. You will
most likely need it. Now go back to the Stone Tower Temple. Flip the temple
upside down and then enter it. If you need to get the boss key again, get it. If
not, go back to the room where you got the Giant Mask and defeat the Eyegore
again. Next, go through the door and hit the crystal switch with the hookshot to
reveal a chest on the ceiling. Use the hookshot to latch on to the chest and
pull yourself up. On this grate, look up and latch on to the target with the
hookshot in order to get by this spiked column. Next, drop to the side and hit
the ground and open the boss door. Jump in the pit to face Twinmold.

------------------------------
Giant Masked Insect: Twinmold
------------------------------

An easy battle. Twinmold is basically two worms who surface from and submerge
into the sand. They twist a little, but do not do any major attacks. Put on the
Giant's Mask and just slash continuously. Try to hit their heads and the tips of
their tails. Continue slashing until both worms are dead. If you didn't get the
Chateau Romani and need magic, destroy the pillars as Giant Link, then take off
the mask and collect the magic jars. With Twinmold defeated, get the Heart
Container and Twinmold's remains. You'll then appear in Ikana Canyon and the
evil will be destroyed.

------------------------
The Anju and Kafei Saga
------------------------

Play the Song of Time to go back to the first day and wait until the inn opens.
Go in and talk to Anju at the check-in desk to get the key. Next, wait until the
postman enters a little after 2 pm and listen to the conversation between him
and Anju. After he leaves, put on the Kafei Mask and talk to Anju. She'll tell
you to meet her at 11:30 pm in the kitchen. In the time in between, make sure 
you get the Moon's Tear and trade it for a Land Title Deed.

If you leave to do something else, make sure you come back to the inn before 8
pm or you'll have to enter through the door next to the bell if you don't have a
key. At 11:30, Anju will walk into the kitchen. Talk to her in order to get a
letter. She tells you to deposit it in the morning. However, go to the bathroom
and talk to the hand that pops out. It'll ask for some paper, so give it the
deed. You'll get a heart piece in return. Then leave the hotel and put the
letter in a mailbox. Play the Song of Double Time after that to reach the second
day.

Run to the Laundry Pool and wait there until around 3 for the postman to show
up. He'll ring the bell and a kid will run out of the building next to the pool.
Go through the door the kid came out of and wait for him to come back. Talk to
the kid and he'll take off his mask to reveal himself as Kafei. He'll tell you
why he's been hiding and then give you a pendant to give to Anju. Leave the room
and go the inn. Give the pendant to Anju and then wait outside the Curiosity
Shop until around 12:30 pm. Sakon will run in and haggle with the owner for a
while, then leave. When he leaves, play the Song of Double Time to reach the
next day. At 1 pm on the final day, go to Kafei's house and talk to the
Curiosity Shop owner inside. He'll give you a letter from Kafei (Express Mail)
and the Keaton Mask! Now exit and go to North Town. Run up to the circle of
bushes, but put on the Keaton Mask a good distance away. Charge your sword up,
go to the center of the circle and use the spin attack to cut all the bushes.
After that a Keaton will pop up and ask you five questions. Answer them
correctly for a heart piece!

Play the Song of Soaring and go to Ikana Canyon. Drop down into the ravine and
then swim past the Octoroks and climb up onto the harbor there. Run up the ramp
and then run past the Deku Salesman. You should see a couple of rocks next to
it. Run behind them and wait for Sakon to come up. Kafei will be there
immediately when the third day begins and Sakon will come at 6 pm.

When Sakon gets there, he'll open the door, allowing you and Kafei to enter.
Once you enter, go through the door and a little cutscene will begin. After the
cutscene, run up and step on the switch. Then, as Kafei, run into the room and
push one of the blocks onto the switch. As Link, run into the now opened room
and quickly kill the Deku Baba. As Kafei, step on one of the yellow switches to
slow the movement of the conveyor belt, then run around the rest of the switches
and step on the blue one. Next, as Link, go to next room and kill the Deku
Babas. As Kafei, go into the next room and push the block in front of the door
down and then step on the red switch. Quickly push the block to your left on the
yellow switch. Next, push the block below you onto the blue switch. As Link, run
into the next room and kill the Wolfos as quickly as you can. As Kafei, run out
of the room and don't worry about stepping on the red switch. Step on the blue
switch in the next room and then as Link, run out the door and step on the
switch. The hole that the Sun Mask would have dropped into will be covered up
and Kafei will be able to retrieve the mask.

Now, play the Song of Soaring to go back to Clock Town and then run to the post
office. Slow time down and then give the Express Mail to the postman. He'll run
to return it to Madame Aroma. Put on the Bunny Hood and follow him. After he
delivers the mail in the Bar, he'll exit. Talk to him and he'll give you the
Postman's Hat. Now go to one of the mailboxes while wearing the Postman's Hat
and search it to get a heart piece.

Next, at 4 am, Kafei will run into Clock Town. He'll enter the Inn. Follow him
up to Anju's room and watch their ceremony. In the end, you'll get the Couple's
Mask. Now play the Song of Time and go to the first day. Next, enter the Mayor's
House when it first opens and talk to the Mayor while wearing the Couple's Mask
for a heart piece.

------------------
The Final Stretch
------------------

You have a few options here. You may either buy a bottle of Chateau Romani for
200 rupees when the Bar is open, or you may receive a bottle of Chateau Romani
from Madame Aroma on the third day by doing the whole Anju/Kafei subquest again
and giving her the letter from Kafei instead of giving it to the postman to
deliver. Make sure you have 20 masks (the only space in your mask screen should
be in the lower right corner) and put a couple fairies in bottles and wait for
the third night at midnight for the carnival to begin. Go up into the Clock
Tower and confront the Skull Kid again. However, play the Oath to Order to call
the Guardians to come forth and protect the planet. After a lengthy cutscene,
you'll be transported to the moon.

-----------------
The Moon: Odolwa
-----------------

Drink the Chateau Romani if you haven't already. Find the kid wearing the Odolwa
mask and talk to him. Give him a mask to be transported to the Odolwa mini-
level. Put on the Deku Mask and dive in the Deku Flower. Wait for the Deku
Flower on the revolving platform to come around and then fly to said Flower.
Next, fly to the flower on either platform next to the wall. Dive in the Flower
there and wait for the yellow flower on the next revolving platform to come
around while not being blocked by the block on top. Next, quickly dive into the
flower and wait until you face the platform with the heart piece on it to come
out. Get the heart piece and then dive in the flower and come back to the
platform. Next, fly to the platform at the other corner, where you'll find the
door. Go through it and talk to the kid. Give him another mask and you'll be
transported outside.

---------------
The Moon: Goht
---------------

Find the kid wearing the Goht mask and give him two masks. You'll then be
transported to the Goht mini-level. Put on the Goron Mask and walk to the long
stretch. Roll along the strip until spikes come out and you jump across the gap.
On the other side, stop and find the yellow circle. Step on it to go to the
beginning again in the center of the strip. Press A and hold the Control Stick
up until you jump across the first gap, then let go of the Control Stick and
continue holding A. If you just want to beat the level, stop where the first
green jars are and go up the ramp to the two Gossip Stones with the yellow
circle in the center. Walk to the ramp to the left and roll across it and pick
up speed until spikes come out of you so you can jump over the gap. Open the
door and talk to the kid. However, if you want to get the heart piece, roll past
the first set of green jars and steer your way to the heart piece. After that,
drop down in the pit and then go to the exit. Give the kid two masks and you'll
be transported outside.

----------------
The Moon: Gyorg
----------------

Find the kid with the Gyorg mask on and give him three masks. You'll then be
transported to the Gyorg mini-level. Put on the Zora Mask and dive in the water.
When forks in the path appear, take the right fork, then the left fork, then the
left fork and the left fork again to reach the kid. Give him three masks and
you'll be transported to the outside.

-------------------
The Moon: Twinmold
-------------------

Find the kid wearing the Twinmold mask and give him four masks. You'll be
transported to the Gyorg mini-level. Put on the Bunny Hood if you haven't given
it away yet and equip the Great Fairy's Sword. Go through the door and fight the
Dinofols. One shot from the Great Fairy's Sword will kill it. Enter the next
room, then go to the next room and fight the Garo Master. Use the same tactics
as last time and he should go down quickly. After he kills himself, use the
hookshot to latch onto the chest revealed. Open it for some arrows. Go to the
next room and then open the door to face an Iron Knuckle. Defeat the Iron
Knuckle using hit-and-run tactics with the Great Fairy's Sword and then open the
chest it leaves behind for 10 bombchu. Now if you look to your right and up a
little, you should see an 'x' in the wall. Go to the opposite wall and take out
a bombchu. Hold it for a few seconds, then let it go. It should explode near the
X and reveal a switch. Hit the switch with an arrow to reveal a ladder. Climb up
the ladder and go through the door. Pick up the heart piece and then look up.
You'll see a crack in the ceiling. Stand at the center of any wall and take out
a bombchu and let it go. It should blow up at the X, revealing a frozen switch.
Hit the switch with a fire arrow. The door will unlock, allowing you to go
through it and talk to the kid. Give him your last four masks and you'll be
taken to the outside again.

-----------------
The Final Battle
-----------------

Find the kid sitting next to the tree wearing Majora's Mask. Say you'll play
with him and he'll give you the Fierce Deity's Mask. You'll then be transported
to a room with psychedelic colors. Equip the Fierce Deity's Mask and then put it
on. The four guardian masks will rip away from you and then Majora's Mask will
appear.

Majora's Mask is a pretty easy fight. He'll fly around for a little bit, then
he'll send the guardian masks after you. Just Z-Target each of the masks and
press B to fire a projectile that'll kill them. For Majora's Mask, just slash it
or fire projectiles at it. It will occasionally attack by spinning around and
flying at you, but that's not too much of a problem.

After it takes a few hits, Majora's Mask will burn up and become Majora's
Incarnation. Majora's Incarnation is a good deal faster than its previous form,
but its easier. Target it and hit it with a projectile to knock it down, then
repeatedly hit it with your sword. It should be defeated quickly.

However, after Majora's Incarnation is defeated, Majora's Wrath is formed. This
final form of Majora is the strongest as it has huge tendrils that it whips
about on several different ways. However, getting hit by this attack doesn't do
much damage. To defeat it, you can either run toward it, ignoring the attacks,
or you can defend yourself using your sword as shield and run at him. However,
using the second way, there is a high possibility you'll be knocked off your
path. When you reach him, slash him repeatedly with your sword. After a few
shots, Majora's Wrath will die.

Now all that's left is for you to sit back and enjoy the ending.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Enemies
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Armos: These statues come to life when you touch them. However, they're easily
       defeated by a couple slashes or a Goron Punch. When they are defeated,
       they jump around until they explode. Bring your shield up to avoid taking
       damage from this.

Bad Bat: This is an incredibly weak enemy. However, it does fly out of
         nowhere and can surprise you. One attack defeats it. However, if they
         fly through flames or cold breath, they'll be set on fire and frozen
         flames, respectively. Getting hit by bats in both states takes off a
         lot of health.

Beamos: These are very annoying and very difficult to defeat it if they see you.
        If they see you, they will fire a blue laser that hurts a great deal and
        will knock you backward if you try to block it with your shield. To
        defeat them, throw a bomb at them and wait for it to explode.

Black Boe: These are cagey. Although they are incredibly weak, they do tend
           to hide in shadows where they're camouflaged. They also tend to
           attack in groups. Just swing your sword wildly in the direction of
           their eyes until all of them die.

Bio Deku Baba: These enemies attach themselves to large floating lily pads or
               other materials. Hit them with arrows or a boomerang to kill
               them. If you hit the stem, they'll fall from their perch and
               run around. Another hit will kill them.

Blue Bubble: Let these hit your shield and then slice them with your sword
             when the blue gas dissipates. If you attack while the blue gas
             is still there, you won't be able to unsheath your sword for a
             while.

Blue Tektite: These are rather simple. They hop around and occasionally
              become aggressive. Hit them three times with the sword to beat
              them. Z-Targeting and vertical slashes help.

Death Armos: These are one of the more powerful enemies. Unlike Armos, Death
             Armos fly and stomp on you if they see you. They have one weakness
             and that's the little target on them. If you hit that spot with a
             light arrow, it will flip over allowing you to strike it with your
             sword to kill it. However, when it dies, it will implant itself in
             the ground and explode.

Deku Baba: There are three types of Deku Babas: aggressive, passive and mini.
           The aggressive Babas will actually try to take a bite out of you,
           while passive Babas merely spins around in a circle. Mini Deku
           Babas, on the other hand, just remain in one area and chomp their
           jaws. The number of hits to defeat them varies from type to type,
           but is no more than two.

Desbreko: It's a strong and durable fish, but nothing to worry about. It is
          always flanked by a group of Skullfish, but concentrate on the
          Desbreko. When the Desbreko dies, the Skullfish will die also. Hit
          the Desbreko three times to kill it.

Dexihand: Use the boomerang to defeat these. If you don't, they'll most
          likely grab you as you try to go past, which would not be good.

Dinofols: These jump around and slice you with their sword. They will also
          occasionally stop to blow fire in front of them. Wait for them to
          attack and then hit them before they hit you. You may also hit them
          with arrows while they are blowing fire.

Dodongo: This is a huge creature. However, it is relatively slow. As such, it
         is easy to hit its tail, its only weak point to swords. Either use
         Z-Targeting and jump your way around the Dodongo or put on the Bunny
         Hood and run around it to hit the tail. When you hit the tail, the
         Dodongo will spin around and then breathe fire at you. Thus, you
         should run away after you hit the tail, something that will be
         somewhat difficult to do if you're Z-Targeting. You may also throw
         bombs at it. If it swallows a bomb, it will do double damage.

Dragonfly: This creature flies around and can be incredibly difficult to
           defeat. It's main attack is using its tail, which has an electric
           charge. Two normal sword attacks defeat it, although bubbles can
           be used for a one-hit kill.

Eeno: These snow monsters come out of the ground and throw snowballs at you.
      They can be seen as snow moving across the ground. Hit them with a Fire
      Arrow to kill them.

Floormaster: This is a demonic hand that runs on the ground and charges you with
             a powerful fist. Hitting it once will cause it to break into 3
             smaller Floormasters. Hitting each of the smaller Floormasters
             again will kill them. Reflecting sunlight at Floormasters has the
             same effect as hitting them with the sword.

Freezard: This is an ice statue that blows chilling winds. Attack with
          slashes and punches to destroy it. Normal arrows will not work, but
          fire arrows will.

Garo: These aren't a problem at all. Just block their attack with your shield
      and they'll drop their swords and slump on the ground. From there, hit
      them with your sword to defeat them.

Giant Bee: More annoying than dangerous. These will fly around you and hit
           you for little damage. Swat around with your sword until you hit
           it.

Gibdo: These enemies jump on you and suck away life. It takes quite a few hits
       to kill them. Their screams will paralyze you, but you can pas by them
       and talk to them unharmed if you are wearing the Gibdo Mask.

Guay: These small flying birds are no threat. They merely have the annoying
      tendency to pop out of nowhere and hit you. Hitting them with any attack
      will kill them.

Hiploop: These creatures charge if they see you, so keep your shield up.
         Generally, the idea is to get the Hiploop to push themselves into a
         hazard, like poisonous water. If they hit a hazard, they die. In
         order to drive them into the hazard, step out of the way of their
         charge. You can also defeat them by popping out of a Deku Flower
         under them.

Like-Like: Yes, the Like-Like returns! As in the previous Zelda games, hit it
           with arrows to kill it easily. If you must fight it underwater as
           Zora Link, use the Boomerang to stun it and then punch it. Repeat
           until it's dead.

Mad Shrub: This creature is a Deku Shrub that pops up out of its flower and
           pelts you with seeds. One attack defeats it.

Nijeron: Watch out when attacking these. If you hit it, it will explode and
         will damage you if you're too close. Hit them with the Hookshot or
         an arrow from a distance. If they do roll toward you, you can knock
         them back with your shield.

Octorok: These enemies pop out of the water and spit rocks at you. They'll
         dive back into the water if you come close to them, so keep your
         distance and reflect their rocks with your shield. Alternatively,
         you can use arrows or boomerangs to kill them. You can also hit them
         with ice arrows to use them as platforms.

Re-Dead: Much like the Gibdos, they grab onto you and suck away life. Their
         screams will paralyze you, so be aware of that. Mindless slashing in
         their general direction will defeat them. They'll also be defeated by
         having sunlight reflected at them.

Real Bombchu: This enemy has a bomb attached to it and will light the fuse
              when it sees you. Either run away from it until it blows up or
              hit it with a projectile to kill it safely. You may also raise
              your shield to have it harmlessly bounce to the ground and
              explode.

Red Bubble: These are skulls with flames around them. They hop around in
            order to attack you. If they hit your shield, the flames will
            dissipate and you can attack them.

Shell Blade: These are somewhat difficult to kill. You're not likely to have
             an open shot at the ligament in the shell if you're not Zora
             Link. Hit the ligament with a boomerang to kill them. You can
             block their charge with your shield.

Skullfish: Not a problem at all. These weaklings swim around and attempt to
           catch you unaware. Hit them with any attack to kill them.

Skulltula: Skulltulas drop down from the ceiling and either show their front
           or their back to you. Their front is invulnerable to blows, but
           their back is weak. One hit to the back generally defeats them.

Slime: This is an incredibly weak creature and has a heart or a magic
       jar lodged inside it. One swift attack will kill it and release the
       item it has inside.

Snapper: Snappers retreat into their shells when they see you and charge.
         Roll out of the way of their charge and attack their head if you
         insist on defeating them. You can also defeat them by popping out of
         a Deku Flower under them. Also, you can flip them over by pounding
         the ground with the Goron Mask.

Tekkuri: This is one of the more annoying enemies in the game. It is a large
         bird and steals an item if it touches you. Not good. To kill them,
         hit them with arrows from a distance. If they do die, they leave
         behind gold rupees!

Wallmaster: Although more like a Ceiling Master now, the Wallmaster drops down
            and grabs you, then takes you to the beginning of the level. If you
            notice your shadow getting larger, that is a clue that there is a
            Wallmaster tracking you. Run around until the Wallmaster drops and
            then hit it with your sword to kill it.

White Boe: Similar to the Black Boe, but without the camouflage advantage.
           However, also like the Black Boe, they attack in groups. Swing
           your sword wildly or use the Goron Pound to defeat them.

White Wolfos: These are surprisingly easier than regular Wolfos. They don't
              tend to block as much, especially when they're running. White
              Wolfos principally attack by making two swipes with his claws.
              The swipes will usually miss if you stand still. After the
              swipes, you can strike it with your sword.

Wolfos: These creatures have incredible blocking ability and are fairly
        aggressive. Lock onto them with Z-Targeting and hit them with a quick
        sword swipe when they start to attack. Otherwise, your attacks will
        most likely hit their arm.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Songs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

C Right, A, C Down, C Right, A, C Down - Song of Time

The Song of Time will transport you to the Dawn of the First Day. You can
also save your game.

C Down, A, C Right, C Down, A, C Right - Inverted Song of Time

The Inverted Song of Time greatly slows the passage of time. Thus, you're
given more time to work with. However, the night is much longer as is the
day.

C Right, C Right, A, A, C Down, C Down - Song of Double Time

The Song of Double Time increases the time by a half-day.

C Left, C Right, C Down, C Left, C Right, C Down - Song of Healing

This song exorcises spirits from Link's body or from other spirits and turns
them into a mask.

C Down, C Left, C Up, C Down, C Left, C Up - Song of Soaring

This song transports Link to the location of any Owl Statue he has activated.

C Up, C Left, C Right, C Up, C Left, C Right - Epona's Song

This song calls to Epona to come to you. It works on any place on Termina
Field or its various extensions.

A, C Down, C Up, A, C Down, C Up - Song of Storms

This creates rain in whatever room you play it. The rain has the ability to
clean the unclean...

C Up, C Left, C Up, C Left, A, C Right, A - Sonata of Awakening

This song awakens anything from a deep sleep.

A, C Right, C Left, A, C Right, C Left, C Right, A - Goron Lullaby

This song puts any Goron to sleep.

C Left, C Up, C Left, C Right, C Down, C Right, C Left - New Wave Bossa Nova

This song inspires people to sing.

C Right, C Left, C Right, C Down, C Right, C Up, C Left - Elegy of Emptiness

This creates a statue of your current image (Young, Deku, Goron, or Zora Link).

C Right, C Down, A, C Down, C Right, C Up - Oath to Order

Calls upon the Guardians of the planet to stop the moon's descent.

More to come...

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Heart Pieces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

#1: On the clock tower in South Clock Town. Use the nearby Deku Flower to
    reach it.

#2: In the tree in North Clock Town. Jump across the pillars to reach it.

#3: In the Deku Palace. It's in the garden that does not contain the hole to
    the Magic Bean Seller. Avoid alerting the guards and you'll get it.

#4: In a treasure chest in Woodfall. It can be retrieved before or after
    defeating Odolwa, but it's easier to do it after.

#5: In the Postman's House in West Clock Town. Talk to him and stop the clock
    at 10 seconds.

#6: Go on the boat cruise after defeating Odolwa. Hit the target 19 times.

#7: Give the man at the Tourist Information Desk a picture of the Deku King
    before defeating Odolwa.

#8: In the Swordsman's School in West Clock Town. Choose the Expert Lesson
    and slice the 10 logs with jumping slashes.

#9: In a hole in Termina Field. Use the North Clock Town exit and you should
    find it near the Dodongoes. Inside, kill the two Dodongoes.

#10: On top of the Tourist Information Center. Use the Deku Flower to reach
     it.

#11: In the Treasure Chest store in East Clock Town. You must use the Goron
     Mask to complete the game.

#12: On top of a tree in the passageway to the Southern Swamp. Climb up a
     vine ladder on the side to get it.

#13: Get a perfect score in the Honey & Darling Shop in East Clock Town all
     three days.

#14: Reunite the two seahorses at Pinnacle Rock.

#15: In the area of the Great Bay Coast under the entrance to the Waterfall
     Rapids. Dive into the water with the waterfall and then kill the Like-
     Like.

#16: Reunite the Frog Choir and talk to them.

#17: In the lake between Mountain Village and Goron Village. You'll need to
     dive to the bottom.

#18: In Termina Field. It's in a cave under a rock next to the gate to the
     Great Bay Coast. Kill the Bio Deku Babas and then hit the hives to find
     the heart piece.

#19: In Waterfall Rapids. Complete the beavers' challenge after getting the
     bottle to get the heart piece.

#20: Talk to Anju's Grandmother and listen to the 'Carnival of Time' story
     while wearing the All-Night Mask. Answer 'On the eve of the festival' to
     get a heart piece.

#21: Talk to Anju's Grandmother and listen to the 'Four Giants' story while
     wearing the All-Night Mask. Answer 'I dunno' to get a heart piece.

#22: Get a perfect score in the Swamp Shooting Gallery twice.

#23: Teach the Rosa Sisters a new dance with the Kamaro Mask.

#24: Get a perfect score in the Clock Town Shooting Gallery.

#25: Defeat the Iron Knuckle in the second opened grave in the Ikana
     Graveyard.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Owl Statue Locations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Clock Town: Walk around the Clock Tower and you'll see it.

Milk Road: It's in view as you enter Milk Road from Termina Field.

Southern Swamp: Go right after entering from Termina Field and you should see
                it.

Woodfall: On the podium with the Deku Scrub symbol.

Mountain Village: Right before the entrance to the path to Snowhead.

Snowhead: To the right immediately before the ice bridge.

Great Bay: On the ledge under the Marine Research Lab.

Zora Cape: On the ledge Lulu is sulking on.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Gossip Stone Sayings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

"The mystical stone responds to the mask and speaks to you...But its words
 are heard in secret..."

"The spirit of a charismatic dancer who died in Termina Field dances there
 night after night."

"It seems you can become a Milk Bar member if you do a good deed at the
 ranch."

"It seems the veranda door of the town's Stock Pot Inn has carelessly been
 left unlocked."

"The Swamp Tourist Center will not accept pictographs taken outside the
 swamp. But if you bring a pictograph of the guide's son, he'll give you
 something nice."

"It seems the face of the slightly larger, strange stone changes when the
 guitar of waves is played..."

"It seems the face of the slightly larger, strange stone changes when the
 pipes of awakening are played..."

"It seems all strange stones that are arranged in a row wish to be the same
 color."

"It seems the face of the slightly larger, strange stone changes when the
 drums of sleep are played..."

"The symbol of marriage, the Couple's Mask seems to have the power to calm
 and silence arguments."

"Anju, the woman at the inn, is known for being careless and frequently mixes
 up guests."

"It seems the hideout of Sakon, the thief, is tucked away at the edge of
 Ikana Canyon."

"The mask that can see into people's hearts and minds also seems to work on
 animals as well..."

"It seems Keaton, the ghost fox, plays tricks in the grass..."

"It seems that Kafei, whose whereabouts are unknown, is awaiting a letter
 from Anju..."

"A torture device of insomnia called the All-Night Mask seems to be available
 at the Curiosity Shop."

"It seems that drinking Chateau Romani makes your magic power last for three
 days..."

"It seems the ReDeads that appear in Ikana Castle start dancing when the
 Captain's Hat, Gibdo Mask or Garo's Mask are worn. But that does not change
 things much..."

"The Fierce Deity Mask, a mask that contains the merits of all masks, seems to
 be...somewhere in this world..."

"It seems the Great Fairy in town had the Great Fairy's Mask..."

"It seems Kamaro, the spirit dancer, had Kamaro's Mask..."

"It seems Skull Keeta, Captain of the Skull Knoghts, had the Captain's Hat..."

"It seems the Gorman Brothers were using Garo's Mask for ill..."

"It seems Cremia, the owner of Romani Ranch, had Romani's Mask..."

"It seems the postman had the Postman's Hat..."

"It seems the leader of the Gorman Troupe had the Circus Leader's Mask..."

"It seems Kafei and Anju had the Couple's Mask..."

"It seems the Giant's Mask was dormant in Stone Tower Temple..."

"It seems Shiro, the unseen stone soldier, had the Stone Mask..."

"It seems the one cursed by the strange, sparkling gold spiders had the Mask of
 Truth."

"It seems his mother, Madame Aroma, had Kafei's Mask..."

"It seems the All-Night Mask was being sold at the Curiosity Shop..."

"It seems Grog of the Cucco Shack had the Bunny Hood..."

"It seems the owner of the Curiosity Shop was keeping the Keaton Mask..."

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Keaton Questions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Q: Where does Cremia, manager of Romani Ranch, try to deliver her milk?
A: Milk Bar

Q: What is the name given to you by Romani, the girl at the ranch?
A: Grasshopper

Q: What are the magic words that Tingle created? Tingle, Tingle...what?
A: Kooloo-Limpah!

Q: Darmani is of which race?
A: Goron

Q: Mikau is of which race?
A: Zora

Q: What is the name of the singer in the Zora band, The Indigo-Go's?
A: Lulu

Q: Is Tingle the mapmaker left-handed or right-handed?
A: Right-handed

Q: What is the name of the mayor of Clock Town?
A: Dotour

Q: What weapon does Romani, the girl at the ranch, use in practice?
A: Bow

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Contact Information
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Feel free to e-mail me at masvega@hotmail.com if you have any questions or
comments. But DO NOT ask me when I am going to update. I've answered when
I'll update below.

I WILL UPDATE WHEN I UPDATE!

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Disclaimer
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

This guide is copyright 2000 Masvega.

This is an unofficial guide. If you wish to distribute this, feel free
to do so as long as it remains unaltered, you give me full credit and
you notify me.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Credits
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

I'd like to thank:
-Nintendo for developing and publishing the game.
-Abby Hughes (abbyhughes@home.com) for some information.
