The Legend Of Zelda
-------------------
       
       The Legend Of Zelda: Majora's Mask full walkthrough with every secret 
revealed. All 24 Masks. All 52 Heart Pieces. Every Stray Fairy and Gold 
Skulltula. Every Hidden Song and everything else. Any questions send them to 
ss3growntrunks@yahoo.com I am Trunks, today is March 6, 2003 and this is 
version 2.30 of my walkthrough.
       	
       Index:
1.	Introduction
2.	Walkthrough
3.	Masks
4.	Items
5.	Heart Pieces
6.	Bombers' Notebook
7.	Skulltula House Strategies
8.	Songs
9.	Disclaimer
10.	Note to Webmasters
11.	Credits
       
Introduction
````````````
NOTE: All this section was taken from the Instruction Booklet which is 
copyright of Nintendo of America and I claim no rights for it at all.

Contents
````````
About the Controller
Prologue
Welcome to termina
Starting the Game
Saving and the Passage of Time
Tatl and Z-Targeting
Reading the Game Screen
Basic Controller Functions
The Mask
Deku Link's Abilities
Goron Link's Abilities
Zora Link's Abilities
The Select Item Subscreen
The Quest Status Subscreen
The Map Subscreen 
Hints


About the Controller
````````````````````
The Nintendo 64 Controller: Control Stick Function
The Nintendo 64 Control Stick uses an analog system to read the angles and 
directions of its movement. This allows precision control that is not possible 
using the conventional control pad.

When turning the Control Deck power ON, do not move the Control Stick from its 
neutral position on the controller.

If the control stick is held at an angled position when the power is turn ON, 
this position will be set as neutral. This will cause game using the control 
stick to operate incorrectly.

To reset the neutral position once the game has started, let go of the control 
stick so it can return to its center position then press START while holding 
down the L and R buttons.

The control stick is a precision instrument; make sure not to spill liquids or 
place any foreign objects into it. If you need assistance, contact Nintendo 
Consumer Assistance at 1-800-255-3700 or your nearest Nintendo Authorized 
Repair Center. NOTE: All this is copyright of Nintendo and claim no right for 
any of it.

Holding the Nintendo 64 Controller
While playing the Zelda: Majora's Mask game, we recommend you use the hand 
postions as you hold the middle handle with the left hand and the right handle 
with the right hand. By holding the controller like thi,s you can operate the 
control stick freely with your left thumb. Using your right thumb, you can 
easily access the A, B, or C buttons.

Connecting the Nintendo 64 Controller
Up to four players can play this game. Connect each player's controller to the 
apropiate controller socket on the front of the control deck. Beginning on the 
left, the sockets are for Player 1, Player 2, Player 3 and Player 4. you cannot 
start the game if the first controller socket is empty.

If you change the connection during the game, you will need to either press 
RESET or turn the power OFF to make the connection active.

N64 Rumble Pak
This game is compatible with the Rumble Oak accessory. Before using it, be sure 
to read the Rumble Pak accessory instruction booklet carefully. Make sure that 
the control deck is OFF when inserting or removing the Rumble Pak accessory.

Prologue
````````
In the land of Hyrule, there
Echoes a legend. A legend held
Dearly by the Royal Family that
Tells of a boy...

A boy who,
After battling evil and saving
Hyrule, crept away from that land
That had made him a legend...

Done with the battle he once
Waged across time, he embarked
On a journey. A secret and
Personal journey...

A journey in search of a
Beloved and invaluable friend...

A friend with whom he parted 
Ways when he finally fulfilled his
Heroic destiny and took his place
Among legends...

Link: Several months after the rescuing of Princess Zelda and saving the land 
of Hyrule. Link set foot into the mysterious world of Termina by chance while 
in the midst of a new journey. There, Link heard a frightful runor that in just 
three days, the moon would fall from the heavens onto that land...

Skull Kid: Wearing a mystical mask, he appeared suddenly before Link. Hidden 
within that maskwas tremendous power - a power that not even he understood.

N64 Expansion Pak: Is you N64 Expansion Pak inserted properly?
The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask REQUIRES the N64 Expansion Pak. Please refer 
to the Nintendo 64 Expansion Pak instruction Booklet regarding inserting and 
caring for your N64 Expansion Pak.

NOTE: Game that do not require the N64 Expansion Pak can be played while the 
Expansion Pak is inserted in the N64 control deck. You do not need to replace 
the Jumper Pak to play such games. Carelessly inserting and removing the N64 
Expansion Oak can cause damage.

Welcome to Termina
``````````````````
This is a kind of parallel world that is similar to and yet different from the 
land of Hyrule, which was the setting for the Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. 
Termina is a mysterious place, and the people Link meets here may look vaguely 
familiar at first glance.

Clock Town rests at the heart of this worls. Heading any direction from there 
will take you to the mysterious regions beyond. The centerpiece of Clock Town 
is the clock tower. It is the symbol of the town and the center of the 
activity, as the townsfolk are busy with preparations for the annual carnival, 
depite rumors that the moon will fall from the heavens in just three days.

Tatl: A slightly overbearing fairy, Talt is always thinking of her younger 
brother. She will be the companion that Link will often find himself relying on 
in this adventure. The replacement for Navi.

Epona: The faithful, young horse that has journeyed with Link throughout his 
adventures is taken from him by the Skull Kid. Will Link and Epona ever meet 
again?

The Deku Tribe: The Dekus live primarily in a palace surrounded by the waters 
that flow from the Woodfall. Their King is terribly stubborn and will not 
permit people of other tribes to enter his palace.

The Goron Tribe: The Gorons live in the small shrine east of Snowhead and its 
steep mountainous peaks. Though used to harsh weather, the Goron are in the 
grips of an unusually fierce cold snap.

The Zora Tribe: Since this tribe lives in the water, they are particularly 
sensitive to environmental changes. The songs of the Zora band, the Indigo-gos, 
are popular with people of all races.

Starting the Game
`````````````````
Properly insert The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask Game Pak into your N64 
control deck and turn the power ON. (Do not touch the control stick while doing 
so.) press START on the title screen to acces the file selection screen. Use 
the control stick to select one of the two files and press the A button to 
continue to the Name Entry Screen.

The Data Files: You can save your game progress to one of two data files. These 
save the items you have gotten, the number of Heart Containers you have and the 
notes you've written in you Bomber's Notebook. See "Saving and the Passage of 
Time" sub-section regarding saving.

Name Entry: You can enter a name up to 8 letters long. Use the Control Stick to 
select a letter, then press the A button to enter it. Select the back arrow and 
press the A button to delete a letter. When finished, select END and press the 
A button.

Copying and Deleting Files: To copy a file, selct copy on the file selection 
screen and press the A button, then select the file you'd like to copy and 
press the A button again. Next, slect which file you will copy ths first one 
to. If there is no empty file at this time, you will not be able to copy the 
file you've chosen. You can also choose Erase on the File Selection Screen to 
erase a file. Once you erase a file, its data will be lost and cannot be 
recovered, so be careful.

Options: Sound: Choose one of the following sound settings: Stereo, Mono, 
Headset or Surround. When choosing Stereo, Headset, or Surround, check to be 
sure that both the left and right audio output cable are properly connected to 
your TV.

Headset: Use headphones for more natural sound.

Surround: The surround setting uses sound effects in the game to create the 
feeling of a 3D enviroment. You can actually sense distance and direction as 
you play. With a Dolby Surround Sound system, you'll feel like you're right in 
the middle of all the action.

Z-Targeting: Change the Z-targeting system to switch or Hold.

Switch: Press the Z button once to make the targeting cursor appear. Press it 
again to stop targeting. When you first turn the power ON, Z0targeting is set 
to this option.

Hold: Target only while you hold the Z button. This advanced mode is for those 
who have masteres using the Z-targeting system.

Check Brightness: If the game screen is dark and difficult to see, use the 
sample provided to adjust your television's brightness so that four levels of 
sarkness ranging from gray to black are visible.
After changing the settings, press the B button to save your changes.

Saving and the Passage of Time
``````````````````````````````
Time in the Game: Time flows continously in the game, except during 
conversations and when you've paused the game by pressing START.
If three days (72 hours) pass after starting, the game will end, so be careful. 
However, you can play the Song of Time on the Ocarina of Time to keep the game 
from ending. When you play the song, Link will pass through a time vortex to 
return to 6:00 am on the first day. If the game ends, you will have to restart 
from the last time you saved using the Song of Time.

NOTE: Time in the world of Termina flows faster than you might expect. Thehours 
seem to go by in mere minutes.

About Saving: When you play the Song of Time, your game progress will be saved 
as you travel back in time.

However, while items you have gotten are saved, puzzles withing mazes and other 
events you have cleared will revert to their original status, so be careful 
when saving. Since Link is the only one who travel through time, the other 
characters in the game will not remember meeting him.

When you want to save your game and quit playing, play the Song of Time and 
wait until "Dawn of the First Day" appears on screen before turning the power 
OFF. The next time you play, you can continue your game from that point. If you 
turn the power OFF withour saving, you will continue from Dawn of the First Day 
from the last time you saved. You can also temporarily save game progress using 
the Iterrupt Save feature explained later on.

When Life Energy Reaches Zero: When you take damage and your Life Energy meter 
runs out, you will be returned to the entrance of the area where you lost all 
your Life Energy. At this time, you will restart with only three hearts, 
regardless of how many heart containers you have.

Playing the Song of Time:
- You will always be returned to 6:00 am of the first day.
- Your game progress (data) will be saved.

Note: There are some things in the game that can be saved and some that 
cannont, so timing your saves is very important.

Thing that can be saved:
- Masks
- Instruments, the Hookshot, etc.
- Songs and Items on the Quest Status Screen
- Notes written in your notebook
- Maps
- Dungeon Map and Compasses
- Rupees deposited at the bank

Things that cannont be saved:
- Cleared maze puzzles, sub-events, conversations with people you've met, etc. 
(These all return to their original status)
- The number of usable items you have
- Small Keys, Big Keys and Stray Fairies
- The Rupees in your wallet

The Opening: When the game opens, Link does not have the Ocarina of Time. You 
cannot save the game without it, but you will definitely have an opportuniy to 
get the Ocarina of Time before time runs out. Don't give up hope!

The Interrupt Save Feature: In addition to playing the Song of Time to save 
your game, you can also use the Interrupt Save Feature to interrupt your game, 
save your current status and quit playing. Your current statues, including all 
masks, items, conversations and the time of the day will be temporarily saved 
until the next time you play. Once you continues that game, though, the saved 
statues will be lost, so after continuing your quest, be sure to save again 
using the Song of Time. If you just turn the power OFF without saving again, 
you will have to restart from the last time you saved using the Song of Time.

Saving With the Interrupt Save Feature: To temporarily save your status until 
the nest time you play, visit one of the owl statues. Hit the statue with your 
sword if you haven't already done so, then press A to check it. After carefully 
reading the instructions, choos Yes and press A to interrupt your game and save 
your statues. Wait until the Title Screen appears before turning the power OFF. 
Otherwise, your data may not be saved.

After sacing and quitting, an owl mark will appear beside the save file on the 
File Selcection Screen. When you select that file and press the A button, the 
day (first, second or final) and time of day that the file was saved will be 
displayed. To continue playing, simply press the A button again. After 
continuing, be sure to save usgin the Song of Time before you quit.

Tatl and Z-Targeting
````````````````````
Tatl the fairy is your constant companion. She'll teach you the weaknesses of 
your enemies and give you hints to help you through your quest. If Tatl hides 
in the folds of Link's head, you can call her out by pressing the A while 
standing still, but only  while Link or Zora Link.

The Tatl Icon: When Link approaches an object that Tatl can explain, Talt will 
fly in the direction of the object. A targeting mark will then appear above the 
object. If you press the Z button, Link will face Tatl and the obejct will be 
surrounded by the Targeting Cursor. This is called Z-Targeting.

While Z-Targeting, the Tal Icon in the top-right corner of the screen may 
blink. Press c-up at this time to listen to Tatl's advice. Tatl will tell you 
about enemy weanesse and give you hints about your adventure, so be sure to 
listen to what she has to say.

TargetingCursor: When Z-targeting is activated, block bands appear at the top 
and bottom of your screen.

When Z-targeting, press c-up when the Tatl icon flashes to listen to Tatl's 
advice.

NOTE: The Tatl icon may flash when Z-targeting is not activated, as well. Since 
she will give you very important hints at these times, press c-up to listen to 
her.

Using Z-targeting: You may find that your adventure progresses more smoothly if 
you use Z-targeting in the following types of situations, too.

Taling to People From a Distance: Use Z-targeting to speak to peopl from a 
distance. Press A when the person is surrounded by the Targeting Cursor.

Aiming: When using shooting devices like the bow, use Z-targeting to aim 
accurately at your enemy. This is very handy for dealing with fast-moving 
enemies.

Changing the Camera Position: If you ever find yourself stuck with a poor view 
during your game, press the Z button. The camere will immediately center behind 
Link, giving you a better look at you surroundingd. 

When there is more than one pssible target, press Z to switch to next target. 
To deactivate Z-targeting face away from your enemies and press Z again. I 
prefer the hold option for this function since all you have to do is unpress it 
and press it again.

The targeting colors:

Yellow: Find out about enemy weakness when the Tatl icon flashes.
Green: Listen to hints when the Tatl icon flashes.
Light Blue or Green: Press A to get information from the people or signs.

The Camera: While Z-targeting, pivot around your enemy.
            When there is no active target, the camera moves parallel to Link 
            when you hold Z. 

Reading the Game Screen
```````````````````````
Life Energy: This gauge displays Link's life energy. When Link takes damage, 
the number of hearts decreases, but energy can be replenished by collecting the 
hearts that appear after defeating enemies.

Magic Meter: This meter displays Link's remaining Magic Power. It will not be 
displayed until Link has earned Magic Power.

Rupees: The number of rupees (currency) Link is currently carrying is displayed 
here. Rupees are oftem hidden under clumps of grass.

Clock: The clock displays the day and time in Termina.

Map: If Link has a map of his current location, it will be displayed here. The 
red arrow larks the pint at which Link enteres the are, while the yellow arrow 
marks his current position. Orange dots represent chests. Press L to turn off 
the map display.

C Icons: These represent the items currently set fot use with C buttons.

Action Icon: All the actions Link can perform by pressing the A button will be 
listes here. For instance, the SPEAK command will appear when Link stands in 
front of a person, or OPEN will appear when he stands beside a door.

B Button Icons: This icons uses words or graphics to show the actions Link 
performs when the B Button is pressend. In most cases, this is the Button to 
press when attacking.


Reading the Clock: Hour Display: The number indicates the current time. Whe it 
passes one line, it means one hours has passed. When 12 hours pass, the sun and 
moon indicators change.

Day Display: This displays the current day as 1st, 2nd, or final.

Minute Display: Each time the ligh passes around the day display, one minute 
passes. 

Link's View: Press c-up during game play to change the viewpoint to Link's View 
(first person perspective). While in Link's View, you cannont move or use 
items, but you can use the Control Stick to view your surroundings. You may 
find Link's view to be particularly helpful i explroing maze.s

The Subscreens: Press START during game play to acces the subscreens. The game 
pauses while you acces the subscreens, so time does not pass. The subscreens 
are divided into four areas. Press Z or R or use the control stick to cycle 
through the screen. Press START again to resume your game.

When the Action Icon says "Info" press A to view an explanation of an item.

Move the cursor to the Bomber's Notebook and press A to confirm appointment 
times and other information.

Basic Controller Functions
``````````````````````````
Link's Basic Actions: Link can perforrm the moves explained here when he is not 
wearing any masks. When Link wears a mask and ssumes a special new abilities, 
the controls may change slightly.

L Button
- Show or hide the map.

Control Stick
- Move

Z Button
- Z-Targeting
- Face Forward

B Button
-Swing Sword

A Button
- Action Icon

C-Left, C-Down and C-Right
- Use Items

C-Up
- Change perspective

R Button
- Raise shield

START Button
- Access Subscreen


Limits on Control: During the game, there may be times when your controlers are 
limited. Button that cannot be used will appears transparent.

Control Stick: The Control Stick is used to move.

Walk/Run: Titl the Control Stick in the direction you want to move.
The speed Link moves at will vary depending on how much you titl the control 
stick. It is best to tilt the control stick lightly and walk slowly on tricky 
ledges.

If you hold Z while moving, Link can move forward, back, left, or right while 
facing forward.

Jump: Run toward the edge of a ledge.
If you run toward the edge of a low ledge or cliff, you will automatically jump 
in the direction you are running. (Depending on height and distance, there may 
be times when you cannot jump.)

Swim (on the surface): Titl in the direction you want to swim.
Press B to swim faster

Dive: Press and hold A.
Action Icon displays the length of time you can dive.
The number shows how long you can stay underwater. Zora Link can do amazing 
things underwater.

A Button: 

The Action Icon: The blue icon at the top of the game screen is the Action 
Icon. The text appearing on the icon changes depending on where Link stads, and 
it tells you what action Link can perform at that particular time. Press A to 
perform the action shown on the action icon.

Grab: Up or Down while grabbing with A.
When standing in front of a block, press A to grab it. After grabbing a block, 
keeping holding A and tilt the Control Stick to move the block in that 
direction.

Drop: When hanging from the edge of a ladder or ledge, press A to let go and 
drop to the ground. If you move the Control Stick without pressing A, link will 
climb back up the ledge.

Depending on height, you may be able to use the Control Stick to make Link 
climb some blocks and ledges. Link may or may not be able to climb certain 
ledges depending on the mask he is wearing at the time, though. You can climb 
ladders this way, too.

Throw/Place: Up + A after grabbing with A.
After pressing a C Cbutton to take out a bomb, you can press A to throw the 
bomb after tilting the Control Stick and running. If you press A while standing 
still, you will place the bomb at your feet.

Open: "Open" will show on the action icon when you're standing i front of a 
door. For chest, you must stand directly in front for the icons to change.

Other Actions:

Speak: "Speak" will display on the Action Icon when you're standing in front of 
a person. (You can alsu use Z-targeting to speak to people from a distance.) 
when a person's conversation continues, "Next" will be displayed. Many 
conversations contain important information, so continue to the next message 
only after first reading everything someone has to tell you.

Check: When Link is able to read signs, "Check" will display.

B Button: This Button is mostly used to attack.

Swing Vertically: Z or Forward + B.

Swing Horizontally: B or Z + left or right + B.

Stab: Z + Forward + B.

Spin Attack: Rotate control stick + B.
You can quickly rotate the Control Stick once and press the B to attack in an 
arc around you.
             Hold B, then release.
You can do this to perform a Spin Attack, but after you gain Magic Power, it 
will use up magic.

When performing horizontal or vertical swings, press the B three times with 
just the right timing for a third swing that is much wider.

Other battle Actions:

Jump Attack: Z + A after drawing your sword.
The jump attack does twice as much damage as a norml swing, but it will take a 
moment to move again afterwards.

Back Flip: Z + Back + A.

Side Jump: Z + Left or Right + A.
Back flips and side jumps allow you to move quickly than standard movement. 
They are very effective for dodging enemy attacks.

Raising Your Shield: R.
Normally, Link will crouch as he raises his shield, but he can also move with 
his shield raised when Z-targeting is activated. You can also change the 
direction Link guards against by tilting the control stiick while he is 
crouched behind his shield.

Roll Attack: Forward + A.
Press A while running to perform a roll attack. Rolling can have the same 
effect as raising your whiled - it protects you and deflects things that come 
flying at you.

Use Z-targeting in battles! 
By using Z-targeting to lock on to you opponents, you will gain a great 
advantage in battle. For instance...
- You won't losee sight of your enemy.
- You can keep your enemy at a distance or close in on it.
- Your attacks are more likely to find their marks.

The Masks
`````````
A variety of masks can be found throughout the game. Several of this masks 
actually have the power to change Link's shape when he wears them. As Link's 
shape changes, he will be given new, unique abilities.

Viewing the Masks Subscreen: Press START to acces the subscreen and open the 
Masks subscreen. The masks can be used in the same way as C items. Move the 
cursor to the mask you want to wear and press C- up, down or right to set it.

Normal Masks: Link can wear these masks, but they will not change his form.

Masks of the Various Types: When Link wears one of these masks, the power of 
that mask is transferren to him.

Wear the Masks Often: Trying different masks in the differen areas of Termina 
is a key strategy. If you find yourself stuck in your wuest, it might be a good 
idea to try to continue as a different character.

When Wearinf Masks...
Some people may tell you different things when you speak to them while wearing 
different masks. Even people who are always rude may open their hearts to you 
when you wear a different mask.

Controls for Link's Altered Shapes:

Deku Link's Abilities
`````````````````````

Special Abilities:
- Use Deku Flowers to fly around (for a limited distance)
- Attack enemies by shooting bubbles (magic power is required)
- Hop across the surface of the water (a limited number of times)

Weaknesses:
- It is susceptible to fire, since it originates from plants.
- Deku Link doesn't fare well when falling from great heights.

Attack: A
Spin in a circle to attack enemies. This can also be done while running.

Bubble: B
Attack from a distance by shotting a bubble. Hold B and then release to shoot 
larger bubbles.

Deku Flower Jump: On top of a Deku Flower, press and hold A, then release.
After burrowing into a Deku Flower, Deku Link can jump into the air and fly for 
a short time. Press B during flight to drop Deku Nuts on enemies. You can also 
sometimes defeat enemies by simply jumping out of a Deku Flower.

Water Hopping: Forward on water.
Deku Link can hop acrss the surface of the water five times. If you try more 
than five, he will sink into the water and be returned to the spot he jumped 
from.


Goron Link's Abilities
``````````````````````

Special Abilities:
- Curl into a ball and roll around. When your bodu becomes armored, defeat 
enemies by rolling into them. (Magic Power is required.)
- While curled, jump up and pound the ground with great force, damaging nearby 
enemies.
- Use your might to let loose powerful punches. Use good timing to unleash 
consecutive blows (three stages)

Weaknesses
- Because of his great girth, Goron Link can't go into deep water and can't 
handle falling from heights.

Curl: A
Curl into a ball. Tilt the control stick while holding A to roll in that 
direction. After rolling a short time without bumping into any obstacles, 
spikes will come out of Goron Link's body, and he will be able to defeat 
enemies by rolling into them. (this consumes magic.)

Punch: B
Unleash a mighty, far-reaching punch that is capable of even smashing boulders. 
Press B with good timing for a barrage of up to three consecutive punches.

Pound: Press B while holding A to curl.
After curling, jump in the air and then strike the ground with tremendous 
force. Use this attack to defeat surrounding enemies.


Zora Link's Abilities
`````````````````````

Special Abilities:
- Move through the water and along the sea floor at will.
- Create a barrie of electric currect (requires magic power).
- Attack with up to three swift chops. Shoot arm fins at enemies for long-
distance attack.

Weaknesses:
- Because the Zora live in water, they are susceptible to both fire and ice.

Swim: A in water.
Swim swiftly through the seas. Use the control stick to change direction.

Dive: B on the surface.
Dive deep into the water. After reaching the sea floor, move around as if on 
land.

Attack: B
Attack in kung-fu style. Time B presses well for up to three consecutive 
attacks.

Boomerang: Hold and release B.
Attack by firing the fin from each arm. Use Z-targeting to home in on your 
enemy. Zora Link cannot perform other attacks while his fins are flying.

Barrier: R while swimming, or press and hold R + B.
Generate an electric current, creating a barrie around your body. Use it to 
defend around your body. Use it to defend against enemy attacks, too. (Magic is 
consumed while the barrie is in use.)


The Select Item Subscreen
`````````````````````````
As Link continues his quest, he will collect a wide array of times from 
treasure chest in mazes. Itmes can be set and used with either C-left, down ot 
right. In oredr to complete the quest, you will need to match these itmes to 
and use them in the different situations you will face.

Viewing the Select Items Subscreen
``````````````````````````````````
Press START to acces the subscreens. Items that can be set to c buttons will be 
displayed on the screen shown below.

Magic Arrows: Thses bestows special abilities on the arrows you shoot with the 
Hero's Bow. They consumate magic when fired.

Bottles: Only the bottle you currently have will be displayed. You can carry a 
maximum of six bottles.

Setting the C Items: Press START during your adventure to acces the subscreens. 
Press Z or R to display the Item Select Subscreen. Use the control stick to 
move the cursor to  the item you want to use, then press any c button to set 
the item. The button you pressed to set the item becomes the button you will 
press to use the item.

In this game, Link will use masks to assume the role of many different 
characters. Among the many items are some that you'll use while wearing a 
particular mask. Items that cannot be used when wearing a particular mask are 
shown in black and white.

C Items Introductions: Items shown with a number beside them on the Select Item 
Subscreen (or on the C button icons in the top-right corner of the screen) are 
ones which have limited use. You can replenish these items by collecting them 
when they appear after you defeat enemies, but each of them has a maximum 
number you can carry at once. (The number is shown in green when you have 
reached the maximum.) for some items, you may be able to increase the maximum 
limit.

The face icons beside on item name indicate when Link can use the items.

Ocarina of Time: Use this item to play songs you learn throughout your 
adventure. If you play them as you were taught, they can cause a wide variety 
of effects. However, some songs may not have any effect unless played in a 
particular place or for a particular person. When Link uses masks to change 
shape, his instrument change shape as well, but the effects of the songs remain 
the same.

Playing the Ocarina: Set the ocarina of time to one of the c button and press 
that button to play it. Press any C button and A to play notes on the ocarina. 
If you play the notes of a song you have learned in the proper order, the 
song's full melody will play

Playing Special Notes: These notes will not have any particula effect on your 
wuest, but they do allow you to play a wide range of notes.
R: raise notes half on octave
Z: lower notes half on octave
UP: Raise a full octave
DOWN: Lower a full octave
LEFT or RIGHT: Vibrato (notes reverberate)

Deku Nuts: Link, Deku
Deku Nuts release a blinding falsh when thrown on the ground, stopping enemies 
in their tracks. They don't affect all enemie, though.

Deku Sticks: Link
These are longer than your standar sword, and you cans wing them at enemies, 
but they break very easily. If you put their ends into flames, you can use them 
to light fires.

Bombs: Link
Press the C button once to lift bombs above your head, then press it again to 
either throw or place them at your feet. Bombs will explode after a few moments 
and can be used to defeat enemies or knock down walls.

Bombchu: Link
Use these in the same manner as bombs, but the second time you press the C 
button, they wil automaticallt start rolling away. If they hit an obstacle, or 
if time runs out, they will explode.

Powder Kegs: Goron
These special bombs used only by Gorons are much more powerful than standard 
bombs. After you set them, they will explode when the fuse burns up.

Hookshot: Link
This item has an expanding and retracting chain with a hook on the end that can 
grab on the certain objects, pul;ling you to them as the chain retracts. When 
you aim, a red dot indicates the hook's range. It can also be used as a weapon 
or to grab items in hard-to-reach places.

Hero's Bow: Link
Use this to shoot at enemies and switches from a distance. Press the C button 
once to take out the bow. Press the C button again to set an arrow to the 
string. When you release the C button, you will shoot the arrow. (You can also 
press and hols the C button once to take out the bow and automatically set an 
arrow to the string.) When aiming, the screen will switch to Link's 
perspective, but when using the bow while Z-targeting, a screen of a third-
persong perspective appears. If you shoot an arrow while Z-targeting, you are 
more likle to hit your target.

The Magic Arrows: In the world of Termina there are three types of Magic 
Arrows. When you shoot them, magic will be consumed in units displayed as 
MP(magic points). When you run out of Magic Power, the effect of the magic 
arrows will be lost.

Lens of Truth: Link, Deku, Goron, Zora
Use this items to see through trickery and deception and to find hidden enemies 
or reveal fake walls. Your magic will gradually be consumed as you use this 
item.

Replenishing Magic Power: The green gauge in the top-left corner of the screen 
indicates how much magic power you have. (Nothing will be displayed until you 
earn magic power for the first time after a particular event). When magic power 
has been consumed, you can replenish it with Magic Jars or Green Potions. Magic 
Jars may appear after you defeat enemies, while Green Potions can be purchased 
in shops. (You must have an empty bottle to purchase a green potion. Explained 
right after this.)

Magic Jars: Large and Small
Large jars will replenish even more magic power.

Empty Bottles: Link, Deku, Goron, Zora
You an carry up to six bottle at once. You can fill them with thing like milk 
and potions and carry them around until you need to use them. When you have 
something in a bottle, you can press the C button to use that item. When the 
bottle is empty, press the button to fill it with certain items nearby. (If you 
aren't standing near anything you can put in a bottle, you will just swing the 
bottle in the air.)

Things to Keep in Bottles: Most liquids, like spring water or potions, and 
small items can be kept in bottles. If you find something, try standing next to 
it and swinging on empty bottles at it to see if you can keep it.

The Potions: Red Potions: Fully replenish your Life Energy.
             Green Potions: Fully replenish your Magi Power.
             Blue Potions: Fully replenish both Life Energy and Magic Power.

Pictograph Box: Link, Deku, Goron, Zora
This is the camera used to enter the Boat Cruise Photo Contest. Press the C 
Button to take it out and the A Button to snap a pictograph. You can take only 
one photo at a time, but you can retake the phot as many times as you like.

NOTE: There are other items besides those shown here. Have fun finding them!
      (If you are reading this guide to know what items appear, jump ahead to 
       the Walkthrough or Items section)

Event Items and Trading Sequencies
On the right edge od the Select Item Subscreen are three spaces when Event 
Items will be displayed. As you use the Event Items you have receieved or pass 
them on to someone else, you will see events unfold before your eyes. This 
sequence of events is called a trading sequence. After clearing a trading 
sequence, something good will come to you in the end.

WARNING: Event Items cannot be saved.
When using the Song of Time to save your game and return to dawn of the first 
day. Event Items obtained in trading sequences will be lost. The memories of 
characters who spoke with Link during trading events, revert to their original 
state, so you will have to start any trading sequences over again.

Selecting Items During Conversations
When someone you are speaking to is looking for a particular item, a screen 
like the one on the right will appear during your conversation. When it does, 
you can press the C button to show them the item if it is set to the C button. 
If it is not already set to a C button, you can press START to access the 
Select Items Subscreen and set the item.

The Quest Status Subscreen
``````````````````````````
Viewing the Quest Status Subscreen: This screen shows the equipment you are 
alwasy equipped with and certain typer of items necessary to complete your 
quest. After receving the Bomber's Notebook, you can check its contents from 
this screen too.

Bomber's Notebook: This is the notebook Link uses to keep notes on the 
different characters he meets throughout his adventure. Conversations with and 
promises made to these people will be recorded automatically.

Ocarina Melodies: Check here to confirm the notes of songs you have learned. 
You can also move the cursor to the note and press A to listen to the melody.

Quiver and Bomb Bag: You'll use these items to hold bombs and the arrows you 
shoot using the Hero's Bow. When these get larger, you can carry more bombs and 
arrows.

Sword and Shield: The sword and shield Link is currently equipped with are 
shown here.

Boss Masks: Masks gotten from defeated bosses are displayed.

Pieces of Heart: The pieces of heart you now have are displayed here. When you 
collect four, your maximum Life Energy will increase by one, and this are will 
become empty.

Pieces of Heart
Link's Life Energy is initially only three hearts, but as you collect more 
Heart Containers, you can increase his maximum Life Energy. Each time you 
collect four of the many Pieces of Heart found throughout Termina, they will 
combine to form one Heart Container.
When you get a Piece of Heart or Heart Container, your Life Energy will be 
replenished.

Sword and Shield Power-Ups
You'll be able to power up Link's sword and shield during the quest. When you 
do, the new sword and shield will replace the ones on the Quest Status 
Subscreen.

Using the Bomber's Notebook
If you move the cursor on the Quest Status Subscreen to the Bombers' Notebook 
and press A, a screen similar to the one below will appear. You can use it to 
confirm appointments and schedules recorded here. Use the control stick to move 
the cursot to view the details of a particular person's schedule. Link must 
work hard to make the troubled people of Termina happy!

Current Time: Displays the time of the day when that events can or will happen.

Characters: Characters' pictures will be displayed here. As you speak to more 
people who can be recorded here, the number of faces shown will increase. You 
can record information for a maximum of 20 people.

Schedule: Times when you spoke to people or received items are shown.

Details: Information about your conversations or the items received will be 
displayed here.

A yellow exclamation point: This mark is recorded for important conversations. 
Blue time bars mean that you can have that conversation at any time during that 
period. Tasks you must perform again after saving and returning to the first 
day will be marked by a gray icon.

Red Ribbon: When you receive an item from a person, this symbol will be shown 
at the time of day you got it.

Green Mask: This symboll will be added after you receive a mask from someone.

Red Medal: When you have solved the problems of a troubled person, this symbol 
will be added to the right of that character's schedule information as proof of 
completion.

The contents of your Bombers' Notebook are saved when you use the Song of Time, 
but your conversations with those people are not, so you may have to repeat 
some tasks and conversations.


The Map Subscreen
`````````````````
There are two types of Map Subscreens. When ink is outdoors, a map of the land 
of Termina will be displayed when Link is inside temples or other mazes, a 
dungeon map will appear.

Viewing the World Map
Initially, the entire map will be covered in clouds, but as you purchase maps 
of areas, the clouds covering those areas lift, reveling that area on the world 
map.

Link's Current Location: An icon of Link's face appears over the are where Link 
currently is.

Adventure Points: When you move the cursor to points you have visited, the name 
of that place will be displayed.

Viewing Dungeon Maps
When inside mazes, you can view the Dungeon map on the Map Subscreen. The mazes 
can have very confusing layouts, so check your map if you get lost. If you 
check rooms yo haven't been to yet, a path is sure open.

Temple and Maze Levels: This shows the number of floors. Move the cursor to 
view the map for a different floor.

Stray Fairies: The number of stray fairies that you have rescued within that 
temple will be displayed.

Temple and Mazes Items: Items will be displayed here once you get them.

Layout: The layout for the selected floor will be displayed here. Blue rooms 
are rooms you have visited, and the bliking room is the one you are currently 
in. Outlined rooms are ones you haven't visited yet. Treasure chests are shown 
with arange dots.

Location Name: It is really self-explanatory.

About Temples and Mazes
Clearing mazes is one of the major objectives of the game. There are a number 
of different puzzles and devices hidden within each one. Once you solve these 
puzzles, collect the items hidden in the mazes and then defeat the bosses that 
lurk at the end of the areas, you will have cleared it.

Temple and Maze Items
Map: Use the map to check the layout of all the rooms in the maze and to 
confirm Link's current position. Even before you get the map, rooms you have 
already visited will be displayed on the Map Screen.

Small Keys: Use small keys to open locked doors. Once you use a small key, it 
will be lost, but there will be several hidden throughout each maze. You can 
use small keys only in the mazes you found them in.

Compass: The compass displays the location of treasure chests and the location 
of the Boss Room.

Big Key: Use this key to open the door to the Boss Room.

Helping Stray Fairies
Stray Fairies wander about temples and certain other areas. (You can confirm 
the total number in a particular area by checking the map screen.) After 
rescuing all of the stray fairies, you will receive some kind of reward of you 
take them back to their Fairy Fountain. The fairies' colors differ depending on 
where they're found, and you must take them to the Fairy Fountain of the same 
color. Finally, if you play the Song of Time to save your game, the fairies you 
have rescued will not be saved. 

If you find fairies inside bubbles, burst the bubble to rescue the fairy.

In most cases, Fairy Foutains are located near temple entrances.


Hints
`````
This section offers a few hints that should help you in your wuest. May your 
courage and wisdom once again bring peace to Termina.

The Lives of the Terminians
```````````````````````````
In the three days before the moon falls, the people of Clock Town and the rest 
of Termina carry on with their daily routines. R instance, in preparation for 
the carnival, the carpenters of Clock Town work on the moon-viewing platform in 
front of the Clock Tower. As the days go by, the platform grows taller. As you 
can see, the people of Clock Town will have different actions and activities 
throughout the three days. (As you watch them, though, you will see that they 
will relive actions of the same time on the same day that you first saw the 
actions.)

Also, there are some stores that only open late at night, and other places that 
will change depending on the time of day.

You will find that differen thing can happen at the places you've visites when 
you go back on a different day or at a different time.

The person at the Stock Pot Inn's reception desk changes depending on the day.

Some stores have limited hours of operation.

Using of the Song of Time Wisely
Timing your use of the Song of Time is very important. If you time your saves 
poorly, you will find yourself having to once again solve puzzles that you have 
alreasy cleared. In particular, be sure to check to see how much time you have 
remaining after earning new items. Do your best to make the most of each 72-
hour period.

By playing the Song of Time, you can simultaneously travel back in time and 
save your game.

The Basic Flow of the Game
This game is not solely about action and battling enemies-there are many 
puzzles and mysteries to solve, too. You will find yourself going on many small 
adventures to solve these mysteries, but if you keep the following tips in 
minds you'll surely secceed in your quest.

Talk to People You Meet: You'll get hints and perhaps even help in solving 
puzzles.

Use All of Your Items: There are objects that can be broken only by particula 
items, so using items effectively is the key to solving many mysteries.

Search All the Places you Visit: Use Link's View to get a good look at your 
surroudings. Talt's hints should also be of help.

Take Part in as Many Events as You Can: To complete your quest, you will need 
certain items that you can get only by clearing particular events. The more 
events you participate in, the more it will help you.

Battling Powerful Enemies
As your journey, you will cross parts with a wide variety of pwerful enemies 
that will threaten you with a wide array of powers and attacks. The most 
important thing to do is remain calm and use Z-targeting. If you press C-up, 
Tatl may be able to explain your enemy's weakness. All enemies have some kind 
of weakness. You must figure out where to aim and what to attack with.

The Owl Statues and the Song of Soaring
Throughout the world of Termina you will find mysterious owl statues. When you 
do something to one of these statues, it will change its shape.

And when you play the Song of Soaring, which you will learn at some point in 
your wuest, you will be able to warp to areas where there are Owl Statues. As 
you explore the world of Termina, you'll find that the Song of Soaring will 
allow you to travel to distant places in a matter of second. Owl Statues also 
allow you to temporarily save your game.

Sub-Events
There is much, much more to the world of Termina than simplay explring mazes 
and battling enemies. As your journey through the land, you'll get caught up in 
a nnumber of hidden sub-events that aren't directly related to completing your 
quest. These events will draw you deeper into the world of Termina and give you 
a glimpse into the live of its inhabitants. They may even reqard in ways that 
you do not expect.

Track people's Schedules with the NoteBook
Once you receive your Bombers' Notebook, talk to as many people as you can find 
and keep track of their schesules and troubles. Since you can save this 
information, use it as a reference to hel you decide when, where and how to 
take action. You may also be able to receive particular items at several 
different times of day, so these times will be shown in blue in your 
notebook.regardless of when you receive the item and icon will be displayed on 
each of the appropiate bars, showing that you've gotten the item.




       Walkthrough
       ```````````    
Prelude
-------
 
1)The Deku Curse
--------------

Pursue the Skull Kid: Your quest begins as Link 
pursues the skull kid and his fairies through the forest. This part is a brief 
reintroduction to the controls of Zelda, so get the hang of them now while you 
have all the time that you need. When you finally catch up to the skull kid, 
he'll transform you into your first new from.

2)Practice Your Deku Abilities
----------------------------

Dekus have the ability to burrow into 
flowers and then pop out and float short distances (while burrowing, hold down 
the button till you see the little puff of smoke). You'll need to use this 
trick to cross this small cavern, and a short detour will lead you to a chest 
full of deku nuts. You can equip these to one of your c buttons if you want, 
but there aren't any enemies to worry about in this part of the game.

       At the end of the road, you'll find a mask salesman who will offer to 
lift your deku curse if you bring him the mask the skull kid stole. Your search 
begins in clock town, the massive city that lies at the center of the new 
continent Termina. 

3)Find the Fairy Fountain
-------------------------

Your new ally tatl suggests you that you seek 
the great fairy in the north sector of clock town.  You'll come out of his 
clock tower facing south, so you'll need to loop around the tower to get to the 
north clock town.

       You'll find her cave in the grassy area, but the great fairy won't be 
able to help you now, as she has lost a piece of her essence. 

4)Recover the Stray Fairy
-------------------------

The fairies send you to recover that lost piece, 
which is a small fairy floating somewhere in clock town. 
    
   The fairy actually moves around a bit. During the day (6 am to 6 pm) you 
can find it hovering over the water in the small park in the southwest. At 
night, it moves to east clock town, and you'll need to use the deku flower to 
get it.

Buy a Clock Town Map
--------------------

The great fairy gives you a magic bar that you can 
use to build up little snot bubble with the B button. Fire a shot at the 
balloon holding up the little green man, and tingle will drop down to sell you 
his maps. The clock town map is only 5 rupees, and you can easily find that by 
cutting the shrubs in the corner.

5)Pop Jim's Balloon
-----------------

There's another balloon, floating just south of 
tingle. Pop this one and you'll get the attention of Jim, leader of the brutal 
"Bombers" street gang. He'll offer you a chance to take the bombers' 
initiation, a bloody, no-holds-barred game of hide-and-go-seek. Play if you 
dare!

6)Play Hide And Go Seek
---------------------

There are 5 bombers total: two in the north, two 
in the east, and one in the west. You'll need to touch them to catch them, but 
they won't go quietly, so you may need to use your deku spin for a burst of 
speed. 
  
     The 2 in the north clock town are easy: one near where Jim was standing, 
and one in the corner by the slide. The one in the west clock town is at the 
top of the stairs, by the swordsman school. But the 2 in the east are trickier. 
One id on top of the milk bar, and will try to escape by floating away on a 
chicken when you approach. The other is a top the inn's balcony by the bell, 
and can only be reached by using the deku flower. 

7)The Observatory Path
--------------------

When you've found all five hide-and-go-seekers, 
return to the north clock town and write down the numbers on the bombers' 
shirts as they turn your back on you. Like most street gangs, the bombers can't 
get enough astronomy and cosmology, and they've claimed the astral observatory 
as their turf. You'll need this password to access their secret path, which can 
be found in east clock town.
   
    Hop from step to step over the water, and stay on the water until you 
turn to avoid the big Skulltula that ambushes travelers. (If you do fight it, 
Z-target it and bubble blast it when it turns its back). You'll need to use 
your bubble again on the balloon that blocks ladder, but there are no other 
enemies here.

Meet Pierre
-----------

Fans of Zelda: Oot may remember Pierre, the wacky scarecrow 
you could summon when you needed a hookshot target. Pierre still serves that 
function, bur now he'll also invite you to dance with him, a process that skips 
you to the next morning or night. You probably don't have much time to spare, 
so pass for now.

8)Observe Your Enemy: Get The Moon's Tear
---------------------------------------

The kind astronomer of the 
second floor of the observatory will invite you to take a look through his 
telescope. You'll get a great view of termina field from here, but it's the 
figure dancing atop the clock tower that commands you attention now. Zoom in on 
him with a button, and telescope will automatically pan to the grimacing moon 
above, as it shoots a flaming tear at the observatory. 
      
 Take the blue door to the observatory's small yard and pick up the 
glowing moon's tear. Then take the bombers' tunnel back to clock town.

9)Trade The Moon's Tear
---------------------

You may have already been accosted by the akindo 
nut that appears when you pass by the deku flower in the south town. Equip the 
moon's tear to one of your c buttons and go talk to him now. When he asks about 
the tear hit the appropriate c button to trade it to him for the land title 
deed to his flower.

       Now you can use this flower to fly to the entrance of the clock tower. 
It 
won't open until the night of the final (at midnight), so you might have some 
time to kill before then.

The Heart Piece And Treasure Chest
----------------------------------

The heart piece by the entrance to 
the clock tower isn't hard to get... just fly over and grab it. As old-school 
Zelda fans know, you get one new heart added to your life bar for every four 
pieces you pick up. In majora's mask, this is the first of 52 total heart 
pieces to find!

       Getting the other treasure requires a bit more effort. On the final day, 
a treasure chest appears on the ever-rising scaffold just south of the clock 
tower. Fly straight towards it from the deku flower, and then hit the A button 
to drop when you're right against the edge. You'll grab onto it, and can pull 
yourself up to collect 50 rupees. But you'll lose them if you don't immediately 
deposit them in the clock tower bank (in the west clock town). 

10)Confront The Skull Kid: Get The Ocarina Of Time
-----------------------------------------------

At 12:00 am sharp, float 
across to the clock tower entrance and pay a visit to your new nemesis. There's 
nothing you can do to hurt the skull kid (he won't attempt to hurt you either), 
but a well-aimed bubbled blast will knock the ocarina out of his hand. Grab it, 
and you'll be reminded of Zelda and the song of time she taught you.

       Equip the ocarina and play the song shown below to warp back to the 
moment you entered clock town. You'll lose your rupees. Deku nut, and the land 
title deed, but keeps the ocarina and your new song.

Learn The Song Of Healing: Get The Deku Mask
--------------------------------------------

The mask salesman will meet 
you at the entrance to clock town, and the song of healing. This versatile 
melody has many effects, the first of which lifts the deku curse. The process 
also creates a deku mask, which you can use at any time to revert to your deku 
form.

       When you use the song of time from now on, you'll go directly to clock 
town, right in front of the clock tower. But as your quest progresses, you can 
always visit the mask salesman here for friendly (if overly cryptic) advice on 
how to use your masks.

Exploring Clock Town
--------------------

Every cycle of the game begins here in clock town, 
and it's here where you'll spend much of your time. If you want to go running 
off to the southern swamp to begin your quest, go right ahead. But there's a 
lot of thing to do, characters to meet, and items to win right here in clock 
town. You can't do everything now, but it's a good idea to get acquainted with 
the city and its residents before you get too enmeshed in your quest. It's also 
a great place to kill time, when you're waiting for a specific event or have 
some extra tome on the clock at the end of a cycle.

West Clock Town
---------------

Swordsman's School
------------------

The swordsman's school offers two 
courses: the novice one cost 1 rupee and simply goes over the various attacks. 
In the expert one (which cost 10 rupees), Link earns points based on the 
difficulty of his attacks... just use the jump attack on every target to get 
the 
max score and an easy heart piece! Remember to unsheathe your sword as soon as 
the

The Post Office
---------------

The postman character is a major player in many notebook 
events, and this where you can find him at certain times of day (his schedule 
is on the wall). Come during his training hours, and he'll invite you to play 
his absurdly difficult timing game. Without a clock to look at, you have to hit 
the button after exactly 10 seconds- to the hundredth of a second. Either count 
time by the rotation of Tatl's crosshairs (this takes practice) or come back 
wearing the bunny hood to make the game easier (the timer will stay on screen). 
The prize is another heart piece.

Clock Town Bank
---------------

Mere moments after unlocking the secrets of time travel, 
Link is already using its unfathomable power to commit bank fraud. And who can 
blame him, really? This whole I'll write your bank balance on your forehead 
system is just begging to be abused. If you remember to warp back to clock town 
and deposit all of your rupees before each time warp, you'll then be able to 
withdraw the rupees that you deposited in a completely different time stream, 
on future cycles! This will probably result in a devastating crash of the bank 
and the complete destabilization of clock town's economy, but hey, that still 
beats being obliterated by a falling moon. So defraud away, and earn valuable 
prizes while you're at it.

       The banker gives out prizes as your balance reaches certain milestones. 
You'll get an adult wallet (which can hold 200 rupees) at 200 rupees, and a 
heart piece at (gulp) 5,000 rupees.

Lottery Shop
------------

Don't feel bad about using time travel to rip off this 
lottery... they're the ones paying 5:1 on 100:1 odds, so really, who's cheating 
who? To make a bit of cash, invest 10 bucks each day in a ticket and go back 
each night to get the winning numbers. Then, in any future cycle, buy a ticket 
with those numbers (they won't change) and collect your jackpot of 50 rupees. 
It's free money, but it requires you to visit the lottery shop twice a day, so 
it's a bit of a hassle.

The Bomb Shop
-------------

You need a bomb bag, so make that one of your first 
purchases. But forget buying bombs; you can find them for free on the field 
once you have a bag. Bombchus are fun but not particularly useful, and the 
powder keg won't come into play until much later. 

       Come back after saving the old woman who works here to buy the big bomb 
bag (90 rupees).

Trading Post
------------

You know, I don't think I've ever bought anything here. 
Arrows, deku nuts, deku sticks and fairies can easily be found for free, and 
potions just aren't very useful.

       If you lose your shield to a Like Like you can buy a replacement here, 
but it's easier just to kill the Like Like and get it back. 

The Curiosity Shop
------------------

The curiosity shop serves a few functions. You can 
buy stolen items here, including the bigger bomb bag and the all night mask 
(for 500 rupees, on the last night only). It's also where any items stolen from 
you will turn up.

       The proprietor will also buy things from you. You can't sell anything 
you 
need, so it's mostly just rare bottled stuff like Poes. The gold dust you win 
in the goron races nets you 200 rupees!

Bombers' Notebook #1: Join the bombers' gang as Link
----------------------------------------------------

The bombers' 
notebook is one item you definitely do not want to miss. It's the key to twenty 
different subplots that involve many of the game's supporting characters. You 
can read about the notebook at the sign on the east clock town balcony where 
the bomber with the chicken hid in the prelude. Then, once you've been accepted 
as a member, you'll get your own and can join this though street gang in their 
own ruthless brand of good samaritanism.

       There are two ways to join as human Link: Either takes off your deku 
mask 
after popping Jim's balloon (and repeat the hide-and-go-seek event): or use the 
password from the prelude to enter the observatory path and they'll admit you 
to the gang when you come back out.

       You can get started using that notebook right away, as there are a 
number 
of clock town residents who need the help of a stranger. I'll point them out in 
"Bomber's Notebook" corners like this one as we progress. 

South Clock Town
----------------

The First Owl Statue
--------------------

The most important thing in this 
part of town is the owl statue. Make sure to strike it with your sword to 
activate it (you will not need to do this again on future cycles). Now you'll 
be able to warp back to his statue (when you get the appropriate song), and you 
can also use it to save you game when you need to shut off the game but don't 
want to play the song of time and erase your accomplishments.

The Two Treasure Chests
-----------------------

Even as a human, you can repeat the part of the 
prelude where you trade the moon's tear for the land title deed. Using that 
deku flower you can get both the chest atop the scaffold, and another one 
(containing 20 rupees) in the southeast corner of this map. Fly past the 
scaffold to the straw roof that's just west of the chest, then transform to 
Link and do a rolling jump (press A before you run off the ledge) to get to the 
area with the chest.

Southwest Clock Town
--------------------

Free Rupees
-----------

You can find 5 free rupees in the box 
by the bench at any time, and 60 (!) in the river, but only on the second 
night.

Bombers' Notebook #2: Guru-Guru, Band Leader
--------------------------------------------

Once you have earned the 
bombers' notebook come here between 6 pm and 6 am on the first or second day to 
meet Mr. Guru-Guru.

       All you need to do to bring him peace is to listen to his bizarre tale, 
and he'll reward you with the Bremen mask. You'll also get his happiness seal 
in your notebook.

       The Bremen mask makes certain animal obey you (when you march by holding 
down the B button). Try it out with the dog in south clock town!

East Clock Town
---------------

More Free Rupees
----------------

Forget messing around trying to get 20 
or 50 rupees... you can start every cycle with an easy 100 free rupees if you 
come here first. All that's required is mastery of the rolling jump mentioned 
previously

       Go up the stairs in the middle part of town, so you're above the milk 
bar. Then face south and do a series of rolling jumps, over honey and darling's 
sign. You'll find the chest at the end, behind the shooting gallery's sign.

Yet More Free Rupees
--------------------

That one not enough for you? If you want another 
100 free rupees, head to the observatory path, enter your password, and turn 
left when you get down the stairs. Swim against the wall to avoid another 
Skulltula attack, and plant a bomb near crack in the alcove at the end (or use 
your blast mask). The chest inside contains 100 rupees, and you can get it at 
the start of every cycle. Remember, you only need to deposit 200 rupees to get 
the adult wallet from the banker.

The Milk Bar
------------

The milk bar is strictly for members only, so they won't 
let you in during business hours unless you have proof of membership... 
something 
that you can't get yet.

Town Shooting Gallery
---------------------

This shooting gallery offers a couple of neat 
prizes: You'll get a big quiver if you score over 40 points, and a heart piece 
if you get a perfect score. But that doesn't matter now, since you can't play 
until you have a bow.

The Mayor's House
-----------------

There are lots of interesting people to meet here. The 
left room contains the mayor, who will be added to your notebook.

       The right room contains Madame Aroma, the mayor's wife, who will solicit 
your help in finding her missing son, Kafei. The Kafei's Mask she gives you is 
the first step of a long subplot we'll cover in more detail later. You may also 
find Toto, the Indigo-gos manager, and on the first morning, you can see an 
interesting event involving Gorman. Both will be added to your notebook.

The Stock Pot Inn
-----------------

This large building is home to a number of the 
characters that are covered in you notebook. Among them are Anju, the fiancee 
of the missing Kafei. Talk to her between 2 and 10 pm while wearing his mask to 
get started on her side quest (which you can't yet complete).

       Anju's grandmother is another notebook character: Letting her read you 
stories is a good way to kill time, and you can use them to skip ahead 2 hours 
or a whole day. There's also an amusing subplot regarding her senility if you 
come while Anju is serving lunch, and then read grandma's diary later.

       Many inn events require you to come at night, when it's closed. You can 
use your deku form to get up to the rooftop balcony, or you can get the inn key 
and come and go as you please. Talk to Anju after 1:30 pm on the first day and 
tell her you have a reservation... what do you know, there's a Link in the 
reservation book! But if you stick around a minute or two, the Link who 
actually made the reservation will show up and be turned away, you selfish 
jerk. 

Treasure Chest Shop
-------------------

In this fairly easy game, you run through randomly 
generated mazes trying to get to the chest in time. As with any maze, the best 
strategy is just to pick a side (say, left) and keep running so the walls are 
always on that side of your characters. The prizes (and costs to play) differ 
per character: Link can win 50 rupees, the deku can win deku nuts, the zora can 
win 20 rupees, and the goron can win a heart piece (the first time only, of 
course).

Egads! Yet More Free Rupees?
----------------------------

These take timing, but Link can grab 
another pair of solver rupees in the Inn. If you get the inn key, you'll find a 
rupee chest in "your" room (on the 2nd floor). There's another rupees chest in 
Anju's room, although her door is only unlocked after midnight on Day 3.

Bombers' Notebook: The Mysterious Hand
--------------------------------------

The inn is home to what is surely 
the most disturbing notebook side quest. Go to the bathroom at midnight and 
you'll find a hand sticking out of the toilet. It wants paper badly, and if you 
give him a paper item (such as one of the deku deeds, or one of the letters 
involved in other subplots), it'll give you a heart piece. Although I 
personally wouldn't add anything that's been pulled out of a toilet to my life 
essence.

Honey & Darling's Shop
----------------------

These obsessive lovers some how manage to peel 
themselves away from each other long enough to put on a different game each 
day. You'll win 50 rupees if you beat each one (it costs 10 to play), and 
you'll get a heart piece if you beat all three in one cycle. Don't fall off the 
platform, or it's game over.

       Day1 is bombchu bowling. Hit targets at different heights from a 
spinning 
platform.

       You need a bomb bag for day 2. Using careful l timing, toss bombs into 
wall-mounted baskets.

       You'll need the bow for day 3. You're supposed to hi the targets, but 
shooting honey & darling id good for a laugh.
       
North Clock Town
----------------

The Fairy Mask
--------------

Remember how the great fairy asked you to come back when 
the curse was lifted? Pay her a visit now and she'll give you the fairy mask, 
an item that is essential for catching the pieces of the other great fairies 
that have been scattered throughout the game's four temples.

       The mask does 3 things:
1.	It emits sparkles when a stray fairy is in the room.
2.	It attracts the fairy to you once it is freed (they're usually 
trapped in bubbles, crates, chests, and enemies). 
3.	It completely revolts me. Purple hair, the hooknose, the moles, and 
that caked-on mascara on Link's little body... It's a sight I'd hoped 
I would never have to see.

Deku Scrub Playground
---------------------

Like honey & darling's, the deku scrub playground 
game changes on each of the three days. It costs 10 rupees to play, and victory 
on the first 2 day will earn you 50 rupees. Beat all three in one cycle, and 
you'll get the heart piece. In the game, you fly from flower to flower on 
moving platforms, trying to get all the rupees in the time allotted. They give 
you plenty of time (and there's no additional prize if you're quicker), so take 
it slowly and carefully. It's a tricky game, but the skills you learn will come 
in handy later.

Bombers' Notebook #4: Old Lady From Bomb Shop
---------------------------------------------

Come here at a little 
after midnight on the first day, and you'll see a thief ambush and mug this 
kind old lady. Give him a taste of your blade and the old woman will reward you 
with the awesome blast mask, which effectively gives you unlimited bombs! It 
damages Link, but inexplicably he can prevent the damage (from his face 
exploding?) by readying his shield with the R button. Also, the bomb shop will 
begin selling the big bomb bag after you complete this event. If you fail, it 
will end up at the curiosity shop. 

The Heart Piece
---------------

Now that you're human again, getting this heart piece in 
the tree by the slide is a snap. Just climb up the first block and jump across 
the others to get to the tree. 

Part 1 - 1: The Southern Swamp
------------------------------

1)Cross Termina Field
---------------------

Head out of the 
south gate in clock town, and the entrance to the southern swamp will be right 
in front of you. All that stands in your ways is a few chuchus, weak enemies 
that contain items and regenerate endlessly. Kill them for hearts and magic 
pots and prune the bushes for bombs and rupees.

       If you stray into the tall grass on either side of the path, expect to 
face a few deku babas. Kill these easy enemies while they're just sprouts for 
some deku nuts, or kill them when they're fully-grown and get deku sticks.

       Before you challenge swamp road, you might want to explore the various 
hidden pits in these part of termina field. These optional areas and the danger 
they contain are discussed on the next few pages.

Cow Pit #1
----------

Plant a bomb in the dead center of the log tunnel to reveal 
the first of several cow pits. The cow you find here can't do anything for you 
now, but remember this spot. If you come back after you learn Epona's song, 
you'll find the residents of this pit to be convenient source of life-restoring 
milk.

Secrets Of The Observatory
--------------------------

If you head west from the south gate, you'll 
get to the astral observatory. You can use the deku flower to get over the 
gate, but you'll still need to take the long way out.

       Why even bother? Because there are some interesting things to see 
through 
that telescope. Best of all is the akindo nut that flies from clock town to a 
pit just west of the observatory. If you then leave the observatory and track 
him to that pit, you'll find an akindo that's willing to deal. He'll offer to 
sell you a heart piece for 150 rupees. Don't got that much on you? Say no and 
he'll lower it to 100, but that's as low as he'll go. Note that this pit will 
be empty if you didn't spot the akindo through the telescope first.

       There are a couple of other things you can see through the telescope. 
Follow one of the crow-like Guays as they fly across the map, and you may see 
it drop some red rupees near the observatory. Sure enough, they'll still be 
there when you get outside.

       You'll also see men standing on the field and waving their hands. They 
won't be there when you go outside, but you'll find a pit in each of the spots 
where they once stood. 

More Free Rupees
----------------

Need more rupees? There are plenty of ways to get them 
on the field. You can find 5 invisible rupees atop the log tunnel, a hest with 
20 in the southeast corner of the map (in the tall grass) and another 20 in a 
deku baba pit near that. There's another rupee chest atop a stump near the log 
tunnel, but you'll need the hookshot to get it.

       If you don't mind a bit of petty thievery, the most amusing place to get 
rupees is just south of the observatory. Roll into the tree that the man is 
climbing, and he'll be knocked to the ground. Then you swipe his rupees and 
run, hero. 

Duel In The Peahat Pit
----------------------

There's another hidden pit in the tall grass near 
the entrance to milk road - you can spot it by the butterflies that flutter 
above it. Inside is a Peahat, a difficult enemy that you may not be ready for 
yet. But if you're bold and you're quick, you can slay it with 10 - 12 hits of 
your kokiri sword. Make sure to always stay on the opposite side of its 
lopsided rotors, or this odd beast will shred Link like a field mouse caught in 
a lawnmower. If it burrows into he ground, toss a bomb to flush it out and do 
some easy damage. Victory nets you another sweet heart piece. 

Beware Of The Takkuri Bird
--------------------------

If you veer towards the southwest, you can 
visit milk road, an area we'll cover in more detail later on. But even 
approaching the entrance will draw the attention of the dreaded Takkuri bird 
(which appears as a red dot on your map). When this pest hits you, it will 
either knock a bunch or rupees out of your hand, or snatch a truly important 
item, like your sword or a bottle. If it gets something good, it will 
immediately fly off to clock town and hock it at the curiosity shop for 
birdseed and cuttlebones, or whatever the heck Takkuri birds like. You'll have 
to wait until nightfall and buy the item back.

       It's best to avoid it, but it is possible to kill it. An easy way is to 
transform into a deku, wait for it to attack, and deku spin right before it 
hits you. It'll take 15-20 hits, but when it dies you'll get a very rare orange 
rupees (worth 200r!).

2)Traverse Swamp Road
---------------------

This small area is fairly easy to cross, especially 
during the day when it's wolfos-free. Head straight south for now, since the 
only thing of interest in the east passage is a swamp shooting gallery that you 
can't participate in until you get the bow.

       The one pit, near the bat tree, contains 20 rupees-just enough to buy 
the 
map of this area from tingle, which's floating near.

Climb The Bat Tree
------------------

This tree isn't too inviting, but the heart piece at 
the top sure is. The bad bats will try to knock you off as you climb, so first 
switch to deku form and use your bubbles to shoot down as many of them as you 
can (Z-target them if possible). Then climb up and claim your prize.

3)The Art Of Slaying Wolfos
---------------------------

As soon as night falls, the wolfos emerge. 
These crafty enemies can be difficult to defeat if you don't know their 
weakness... the trick is to Z-target them, then stand so that you'll be just 
out 
of range of its claws (don't use your shield). After its second attack misses, 
the wolfos will be spun around, it's back to Link. Quickly backstab the wolfos 
with a jumping slash (A while Z-targeted) to kill it in a single strike.

4)Warp Point #2: Koume Is Missing
---------------------------------

The first thing to do here is activate 
the owl statue. You'll get the song of soaring soon, and this is a very handy 
warp spot. After that, head into the tourist info center just south of the 
entrance. This is where you can sign up for a swamp cruise, which will take you 
past the giant octoroks. But the tour guide, Koume, has gone missing. 

Deed Trading Game #1
--------------------

There's an akindo nut outside of the tourist info 
building, and he'll start selling magic beans in the near future (after someone 
else teaches you how to use them). But for now, you can trade him the land 
title deed you got from trading the moon tear to the akindo nut in clock town. 
He'll give you the swamp title deed, and vacate the magic flower so you can use 
it to get to the heart piece. 

5)Follow The Monkey: Get The Empty Bottle
-----------------------------------------
6)Save Koume's Life
-------------------

If you 
arrive at the northeast part of swamp A on the first day, you'll find Kotake 
asleep in her potion shop. On the 2nd and 3rd day, you'll see her fly from her 
shop into the forest. Either way. She's concerned about her sister Koume, who 
has disappeared into the woods of mystery.

       Fortunately, the monkey that meets you at the entrance to the woods of 
mystery seems to know where Koume can be found. It runs extremely fast, tough, 
so you'll need to work hard to keep its pace (your deku form in quicker, so you 
may want to switch). Ignore the snapper enemies that you pass - the only way to 
kill them are with bombs or by shooting out of the deku flowers while they're 
above them. If you ever take a wrong turn, you'll end up at the beginning, 
where the monkey will be waiting.

       After you find Koume, talk to her (as human Link), and then go talk to 
Kotake. On day 1 she'll be in her shop, but on day 2 or 3 you'll find her here 
in the woods of mystery. She'll give you a bottle full of restorative potion, 
which you must take back to Koume. When Koume is healed she'll fly back to the 
tourist info building, and the empty bottle will be yours to keep. 

7)Help The Monkeys
------------------

After you save Koume, the monkeys will ask you to 
travel to deku palace to save a friend... and that means taking a swamp cruise. 
Just in case something goes wrong, cut the shrubs by the owl statue on your way 
back, and use your bottle to catch the fairy that appears.

       You could also use your bottle to hold the potions Kotake sells, but 
fairies are far more useful. There is one good use for the potions, though; if 
you have to redo this quest on future cycles (and you will), you can save time 
by buying the red potion and taking it directly to Koume.

Get The Pictograph Box
----------------------

Koume owes you a favor, so this one time only, 
the cruise is free (gee, and all you had to do to save 10 rupees was save her 
miserable life). But before you set sail, talk to the man who runs the photo 
contest. Koume will give you a free pictograph box, a camera that can only hold 
a single shot. Bring him the best shot you took during the cruise to see if 
you've won a prize.

8)Take The Swamp Cruise
-----------------------

There isn't much to do on the swamp cruise but 
enjoy the scenery and take pics with your pictograph box. You can take as many 
shots as you want, but you can only keep one at a time- so don't save over a 
favorite shot! The prizes for the contest are listed below, so don't look if 
you don't want to spoil it.

       Watch your step when you get off the boat. The purple water is poisonous 
to Link, so don't fall in! The monkey will meet you at the entrance to deku 
palace and tell you what you need to do next.

9)Meet The Deku King
--------------------

All you need to do now is go straight ahead. Humans 
aren't allowed in the deku palace, but all deku are... so slip on that mask and 
go see the king.

       The monkey you're here to save is in the cage to the left of the king. 
After taking to both the monkey and the deku, it should be apparent that 
diplomacy won't be the solution this time. You have no choice but to infiltrate 
the castle and save the monkey the old-fashioned-way. 

The Winning Shot
----------------

Most of the pictures you take on the cruise are worth 5 
rupees. A few, like the monkey or the big octorok, are worth 20. But there are 
only 2 shots that will take the top prize of a heart piece: The deku king, or 
Tingle, the contest judge missing son. Since you'd have to go back to swamp 
road to get Tingle, you might as well just snap the king.

10)Infiltrate The Palace
------------------------

As you leave the throne room, go on the door on 
the Link's right. Weave around to the north, then cut west and grab the heart 
piece. It sounds easy, but there's a catch: The entire area is patrolled by 
deku guards. If you cross their line of sight, they'll toss you right out of 
the castle. If you're having trouble avoiding them, wait until nightfall, when 
you can see their line of sight, making this much easier.

11)Buy Magic Beans
------------------

On the east side weave through the deku guards and work 
your way to the pit that is located in the corner at the very end. Drop into 
the hole immediately! Once inside you'll end up in a cavern with a man selling 
magic beans. They're only 10 rupees, so pick some up and be sure to fill your 
bottle with spring water. Plant the bean in the plot of land and pour the 
spring water to grow a bean flower. Jump onto the bean flower for an easy ride. 
The flower will fly you over to a rupee chest in the corner.

12)Hop To The Back Door
-----------------------

Refill you bottle with spring water and buy a few 
more magic beans before you move on. Exit the palace and hop across the 
lilypads to the small yard in the northeast corner of your map. Grow your bean 
leaf and ride it to the palace's secret back door.

13)Fly To The Monkey Cage
-------------------------

This is where the skills you learned in the deku 
scrub playground come in handy. Soar from flower platform to flower platform 
through the entire palace and into the monkey's cage. But things get tricky 
when you start running into the mad nuts. They'll try to shoot you down, but 
your snot bubbles have longer range, so if your aim is good you can snipe at 
them from the platforms before you jump. If you have trouble with that, just 
fly at them and dive bomb them with deku nuts before you land. If you fall, 
you'll have to go back outside and start over, so don't.

Learn The Sonata of Awakening
-----------------------------

Talk to the monkey as Link, and he'll urge 
you to try cutting the rope. When that plan fails, he'll ask you if you have an 
instrument... transform into a deku and show him your trumpets. The monkey will 
then teach you the sonata of awakening, the song you need to enter the game's 
fist temple. And once you learn it, you'll never have to do the deku palace 
event again, even if you later use the song of time.

       Sadly, there's no way to free the monkey yet. And the king wasn't 
kidding 
about sacrificing it: Head back in after you've been thrown out and you'll see 
the monkey being boiled alive! Mmmm... the sweet aroma of hot, juicy, boiled 
monkey... NO! He is our friend and we must save him! Wipe the droll off your 
lips 
and head back outside. Hop across the lilypads to the deku flower and use that 
to get into the little cave labeled "Woodfall shortcut."

14)Soar Through The Marsh
-------------------------

You've been in this area before, but never from 
this vantage point. By flying from flower to flower, you can reach the ledges 
on either side of the waterfall. But watch out for the dragonflies! An unlucky 
hit from theirs stingers will send you crashing to the swamp below, and you'll 
have to cut through the deku palace area to get back here. If you get a clear 
shot, nail them with magic bubbles before you take to the skies.

15)Learn The Song Of Soaring
----------------------------

Waiting at the ledge is Kepola Gebola, 
everyone's favorite owl spirit guide! Kepola will point you to the near by 
engraving of the song of soaring, and teach you how to use it to warp to any of 
the owl statues you've activated with your sword. 

       You may be tempted to give it a whirl and warp back to clock town or 
something, but if you persevere a little further, you'll get a chance to hit a 
new statue right outside the Woodfall temple, and then you'll never have to 
deal with the koume the swamp cruise or the deku palace ever again.

       Spider House #1: The gold skulltulas from ocarina of time are back in 
this small, optional temple. If you can get all 30 gold skulltulas tokens here, 
you'll be rewarded with the mask of truth.

       But skulltula hunting is a time consuming job, so you may want to wait 
until after you've cleared the Woodfall temple. When you are ready to go, bring 
an extra magic bean, and use a deku stick as a torch to burn the web blocking 
the door. See the skulltula section for full coverage. 

       Cross The Woodfall Area: The temple won't be there when you first enter 
this area. To make it appear, you'll want to go counter- clockwise from the 
entrance until you reach the high platform to the south. But that's not easy to 
do... the thin bridges are guarded by pesky Hiploop bugs that can't be slain 
directly. Shoo them with magic bubbles or , as Link, use deku nuts to stun them 
and the kokiri sword for the kill (or just push them off the bridge with your 
shield). There are plenty of mad nuts here too, which you can snipe with magic 
bubbles or dive bomb with deku nuts.

16)Activate Warp Point #3: Play Sonata of Awakening
---------------------------------------------------

Strike the owl statue, 
catch a fairy from the nearby pots, and step up to the deku seal. As a deku, 
play the sonata of awakening, and the Woodfall temple will appear. If you're 
running low on time, this is a good opportunity to warp back to clock town, 
deposit your cash, and play the song of time.

Nearby Treasure
---------------

After activating the owl statue, there's no reason not 
to go for this easy heart piece. Just soar over to the bench in the southeast 
(the cave above the beach if this area's great fairy fountain), and use the 
series of deku flowers to fly north to the treasure chest. No need to take long 
way back: Just use the song of soaring to warp back to the platform (from 
there, you can fly to the temple).

Part 1-2: Woodfall Temple
-------------------------

1)Weave Through the Roots
-------------------------

The first stray fairy 
will meet you at the entrance to this temple. All you need to do to get it is 
slap on the fairy's mask and wait for it to come to you. A second fairy waits 
in the chest to your right, so you'll have to use the deku flower and hang a 
very sharp right to get it.

       Getting to the door on the other side isn't as easy as it looks. It's 
guarded by 2 big skulltulas (one in front of each torch), so you'll need to fly 
right in between them. If they knock you out of the sky you'll have to walk 
back to the ladders at the south end of your room. Use your spin attack to deal 
with the black boes on the floor.

       Since not everyone cares to find the stray fairies, we'll list their 
locations paragraphs like these ones. As we mentioned above, there are 2 stray 
fairies here: One at the entrance, and one in the treasure chest.

2)Hop Across the Poison Pool
----------------------------

Take special notice of the weird flower- 
shaped mechanism in the center of this room, as it will be important later. For 
now, it's just the red flower things floating on the poisonous water that 
matter. You can hop over them on your way to the sole unlocked door on the west 
side of the room (but only as a deku- the flowers will eat Link!). The second 
floor is not currently accessible.

       There are 4 fairies in this room, but you can only get 2 now. The first 
is in one of the pots in the southeast corner. To get the other you'll need to 
kill the deku baba near the locked door.

Get Small Key
-------------

You'll need to hop to the deku flower in the center of 
this room and use that to get to the treasure chest and the small key it 
contains. Use the same flower to soar to the door to room D.

       While you're at the treasure chest, use your magic bubble to shoot down 
the hive in the northwest corner. That will reveal a fairy that you can attract 
with the fairy's mask.

3)Get Dungeon Map: Return to Room E
-----------------------------------

You ran by these spiky snapper turtles 
in the lost woods, but there's no avoiding them this time. Bombs are one 
strategy, but the easiest way to kill them is to burrow into the flowers, wait 
for one to go sliding over you, and pop out at just that moment to send it 
flying. The timing of this takes some practice, but it's the safest path to 
victory. Grab the dungeon map, and head back west to room E.

4)Light Brazier #1
------------------

As soon as you enter, push the block forward, then loop 
around (watch out for a big skulltula ambush) and push the block two squares 
back the way you just came. Then, using a deku stick as a torch, you can easily 
run some flame from the lit brazier in the corner to the unlit one by the door. 
Then head on through.

       Three fairies here: one in a hive near the center of the room, on in the 
big skulltula in the northwest corner, and one underwater (but you'll probably 
want to wait until the water is cleared). 

Get the Compass
---------------

Magic bubbles are the best way to kill dragonflies, but 
you can hit them with the whole pop-out-of-the-flower trick if you timing is 
good. Kill both to unlock the door and make the treasure chest that contains 
the compass appear.

5)Light Brazier #2
------------------

Whip out another deku stick, and make a torch from the 
upstairs brazier. Jump across the floating platforms until you get to the web-
covered door at the top. Now you head upstairs to room G.

6)Illuminate the Darkness
-------------------------

This spooky tunnel is infested with black boes, 
so charge through the darkness doing the deku spin the entire way. When you get 
to the brazier, use a deku stick to make a torch and light the other three 
braziers.

       When all the torches are lit, scour the room for any boes you missed and 
finish them off. When the room is clear, a chest with a stray fairy will 
appear.

7)Soar Across to the Stairs
---------------------------

A bad tumble here may send you back to room B, 
so be careful! You may want to go to the bottom level and use your magic 
bubbles to kill the dragonflies before you attempt the flight.

8)Hit the Ladder Switch
-----------------------

As human Link, hit switch #1 to make a ladder 
appear. If you're low on health, you may want to head downstairs and crack the 
pots for some recovery hearts before you enter room I.

       Tow more fairies in room B: One is just in the balloon to your right as 
you enter. To get the other, use a flower to fly to switch #2 in the northwest 
corner. Hit that to make a fairy chest appear, and use the ladders to get back 
up. 

9)Defeat the Lizalfos: Get the Hero's Bow
-----------------------------------------

The Lizalfos you face here can 
be tough if you don't yet know how to fight defensively. Block with your shield 
until the Lizalfos leaves an opening, then hit it with a jumping jump slash. 
But beware of its fire breath: That can't be blocked.

       The prize is the hero's bow, which you can put to immediate use on your 
way out. Shoot the eye switch on the ledge in the opposite side of room C to 
raise the deku flower that will allow you to cross to the mini-boss.

Defeat the Gekko: Get the Boss Key
----------------------------------

This battle is a little trickier. 
After receiving a few easy hits, gekko will summon his steed, a giant snapper. 
As you may recall, the only way to deal with these guys is to burrow into a 
flower and blast off when it's directly above you. But you haven't done any 
damage yet: the will just send gekko scurrying to the ceiling, and you'll have 
to switch to Link and pick him off with your bow. Get close, he moves pretty 
fast. After 3 hits he'll revert into a harmless frog, allowing you to snag the 
nearby boss key.

11)Raise Flower Platform
------------------------

With the hero's bow and boss key in your 
possession, head back to room B. from the ledge with the first foot switch, 
fire an arrow straight through the lit brazier into the unlit one on the big 
wooden flower platform thing in the middle. It will rise and begin spinning. 
The poisonous water will finally drain away, giving you easier access to the 
underway stray fairy in room E.

       One more ting to do: From the center of the spinning platform in room B, 
shoot another arrow through the fire and into the unlit brazier on the ledge be 
the second foot switch. This will open the door to the dungeon's final room.

12)Cross to the Boss Room
-------------------------

The various alcoves in the south wall contain 
fairies and the supplies (such as magic pots and arrows) that you'll need to 
get through this room. When you have them all, shoot the crystal switch from 
the farthest west alcove to temporarily extinguish the flames. Then quickly fly 
through the middle platforms from west to east, until you get to the deku 
flower that will take you to the boss door.

       You'll find 3 fairies in the alcoves in the southern wall, and one 
floating in a bubble inside a pillar of flame. Shoot it with your bow and use 
the fairy's mask to lure it home.

Masked Jungle Warrior: Odolwa
-----------------------------

The game's first boss is a snap to beat. 
Keep him Z-targeted, and nail him with an arrow whenever he lets down his 
guard. Then, while he stunned, go for a jumping slash. You can block all of his 
attacks with you shield, except for his big swipe, which you can roll under. 
When he begins summoning bugs from the ceiling, you nay want to use the bombs 
to kill them, or just spin attacks. If you have the blast mask, you can let 
them gather around while you block, and blow them all up at once.

13)Rescue the Princess
----------------------

This is optional, so if you're out of time, don't 
worry. In future cycles you'll be able to warp right to the boss upon entering 
the temple, rekill him, and save the princess whenever you want. To do so, cut 
away the vines that imprison her, pop her into a bottle, and hock her at the 
pawn shop... Err, bring her home, I mean.

The Great Fairy's Boon
----------------------

If you've diligently collected all 15 stray 
fairies, take them to the woodfall great fairy's fountain to collect your 
reward. The cave is in the beach southeast of the temple, and you can reach it 
by flying from the deku flower at the end of the nearby bridge. The prize is a 
powered-up spin attack with much wider range.

The Deku King's Reward
----------------------

Deliver the princess to her home to complete your 
quest to save the monkey. He'll be freed, the king will get a savage beating, 
and you'll be rewarded with the mask of scents... just as soon as you go get it 
yourself.

       Follow the king's butler to the treasure room on the west side of the 
palace area. To get the mask, you'll have to chase him through a massive maze 
of traps and blind turns.

       This'll take practice, but you can save time by being the deku until you 
need to transform to Link to use the bow on a crystal switch and jump over rock 
spires. If you want to cheat, try it with the bunny hood.

Archery Practice #1
-------------------

If you visit Koume after defeating Odolwa in the 
same cycle, she'll be offering a new safari shooting game. If you can shoot 20 
or more of the targets she holds up during the cruise, you'll get a heart 
piece. If you accidentally shoot her too many times, the game will end, but 
that doesn't happen frequently, so don't be afraid to take risky shots. This is 
probably the easiest of the 3 archery games.

Archery Practice #2
-------------------

And this is definitely the hardest. Don't waste time 
keeping score: You won't min anything unless you get a perfect score (more than 
2180). The first time you achieve that you'll get a bigger quiver, the second 
time you'll get a heart piece.

       This game requires precision! The mad nuts are the easiest to hit, but 
you have to hit all four each time they pop out (5 time's total). Also, there 
are two hidden mad nuts that must be shot, in the upper-left and upper-right. 
Wolfos can run across the screen periodically, and there are four flights of 
three guays (which fly back the way they came, giving you a second shot). To 
keep track of it all, listen to the various whistles as each enemy enters the 
board, and memorize their patterns.

Archery Practice #3
-------------------

The archery game in clock town is a lot easier. The 
trick is to shoot the red octoroks and not the blue ones, or you'll waste time 
(which will prevent you from being able to play the final round, which has five 
red ones). There are fifteen rounds total, and 50 red octoroks in all. You'll 
get the bigger quiver or if you already have it then the biggest quiver for 
nailing 40, but you need to get all 50 to win the heart piece.

Part 2-1: Mountain Village
--------------------------

The Dodongo Pit
---------------

Dodongos are tough, so 
fighting two in close quarters won't be easy. Their weak spot is their tail, 
but it will take nearly a dozen kokiri swords stabs to bring each Dodongo down 
(and you'll leave yourself vulnerable to their damaging tail swipes). Instead, 
go long range and use bombs or your bow from a safe distance (6 arrows to the 
backside will drop each Dodongo). Hill both and you'll get a heart piece. Just 
stay away from their exploding corpses...

Skull Kid's Symphony
--------------------

Every few hours you'll find a new set of notes on 
this graffiti clef. Plat the tune and earn a few rupees (anywhere from 3 to 
60).

The Gossip Stone Quartet
------------------------

An open pit just off the trail from clock town 
and a second pit under a bombable boulder both lead to small caves with a 
quartet of gossip stones. These may look familiar: There are two more gossip 
stone pits, one between the swamp path and milk road, and one just behind the 
astral observatory.

       The stones like music, but aren't big ocarina fans. Instead, transform 
into a deku (or any other species) and play the sonata of awakening (or any 
other song that's colored in your status screen). The large stone will change 
color (depending on you race). Play the same tune as the same form to all four 
pits, and you'll receive a heart piece.

Bombers' Notebook #5: Kamaro, Ghost of a Charismatic Dancer
-----------------------------------------------------------

If you're 
still hanging around in the north part of termina field at midnight, you'll 
hear an eerie tune coming from one of the frozen trees. Do a rolling jump off 
the ledge and talk to Kamaro. If you play the song of healing for him, he'll 
give you the kamaro's mask. Put in the mask and do that funky dance.

The Rosa Sisters
----------------
Surprisingly, the ability to break into interpretative 
dance with a tap of the B button isn't a great asset on the battlefield. But 
the Rosa sisters, who try to work out new dance steps every night in west clock 
town, will be grateful for the lesson. Do you sexy dance for them, and they'll 
thank you with a heart piece. 

1)Clear the Mountain Pass
-------------------------

Big chunks of ice block your progress to the 
north. But as tatl will point out, a dangling icicle provides a solution. Fire 
an arrow or two and it will obliterate the blockade as it falls.

2)Cross to Mountain Village
---------------------------

This uneventful mountain pass is full of giant 
snowballs, pesky tektites, and camouflaged white boes. Some of the snow balls 
contain hearts and magic pots, but be careful: a few conceal white wolfos 
enemies. Near the top the snowballs will actually block the path, so make sure 
to save at least a few bombs.

3)Activate Warp Point #5: Head East to Frozen Lake
--------------------------------------------------

First things first: 
Cross the little bridge in the northwest corner of this icy valley and activate 
the owl statue. You'll also notice a goron here, starved and shivering beneath 
a frozen waterfall. There's nothing you can do for him now. The building is a 
mountain smithy where you can get Link's sword upgraded, but the block of ice 
on their hearth has put them out of business for the time being. Neither of 
these geniuses have struck on the idea of using fire to melt the ice, but they 
have heard tales of a hot spring hidden nearby. Head east to goron village for 
more information.

4)Continue on to Goron Village
------------------------------

The surface of this lake is frozen solid, 
but you'll still need to use the network of bridges to get across to goron 
village, since there is no ramp leading from the lake's surface to the city's 
entrance. Impeding your progress are a trio of white wolfos, who you're better 
off running from. Tingle can also be found here: He's selling maps of snowhead 
for 20 rupees and romani ranch for 40. Speaking of the snowhead map, you'll 
note that it lists a treasure chest in this area. But if you follow it to the 
spot, you'll find it frozen far beneath the ice. There's no way to get it now.

5)Follow Kepola Gebola
----------------------

If you reach the exterior of goron village on the 
first day, you'll find a sentry who will let you in. but he'll freeze up and 
turn into a rolling snowball on later days, so unless you want to bomb him out 
of it you won't be able to get inside.

       But that's not a problem, since the event we're waiting for happens 
outside. Meet Kepola at the ramp in west, and he'll guide you to a floating 
cave. You won't be able to see the platforms yet, but if you follow the 
feathers he sheds, you'll make it safely across.

Deed Trading Game #2: Buy the Biggest Bomb Bag
----------------------------------------------

One other thing you can 
in goron village is talk to the akindo nut as a deku, and offer to trade your 
swamp title deed for his mountain title deed. Is a deal he'll gladly accept, 
leaving his flower so you can get the heart piece. He'll also offer to sell you 
the biggest bomb bag for 200 rupees and your big bomb bag. But that offer is 
for gorons only, so come back when you get the mask.

Get the Lens of Truth
---------------------

The lens of truth you'll find in the floating cave 
shows you hidden chests, enemies and platforms, but slowly saps your magic 
reserves. If you equip it now and fire it up, you'll find an invisible chest 
guarded by an invisible skulltula. If you have a bomb, you can find a second 
chest behind one of the big rocks.

       The feathers are gone, but your lens of truth will let you see both the 
path back to goron village, and the specter that awaits you.

6)Pursue Darmani's Ghost: Get Goron Mask
----------------------------------------

Darmani's ghost isn't quite sure 
you really can see him, so after your initial conversation he'll go running out 
of goron village, past the frozen lake, and into the mountain village. Follow 
him closely and you'll end up in front of the sheer wall past the icy river in 
the north end of mountain village. With your lens activated, you'll be able to 
see the hidden rungs that lead to the top of the cliff. When the ladder forks, 
head right, then left, then right again, and you'll soon find yourself outside 
of goron graveyard.

       Put the goron hero to rest with the song of healing, and he'll bequeath 
you his earthly form by giving Link the goron mask.

7)Open Hot Springs
----------------

The text on the grave will help you learn your new 
form's abilities, but the cave's biggest secret lies beneath. Transform into 
goron and give the grave a tug to reveal the first of two hot springs. 

       When you fill your bottle with hot spring water and empty it at the 
block 
of blue ice, the ice will melt. Give it a try on the goron outside, and then 
refill your bottle, dive off the cliff, and get ready to run. This is time of 
essence, since the water will lose its efficacy in one real world minute, or if 
you land in the cold water. You can use this water to defrost the elder, but I 
recommend you first dash off to the frozen lake and use it to melt the ice that 
blocks the entrance to the second hot spring. This hot spring id mush more 
convenient and you want to have to climb all the way up the invisible ladder 
every time you need a refill.

8)Talk to Baby Goron
--------------------

If you haven't been inside goron village yet, you 
need to go there before you can proceed. Human Link needed to speak to the 
sentry to get in, but goron Link can get in by himself. Just do your goron 
smash in front of the door and head inside.

       Besides an over-priced shop and a bunch of maddened gorons, there isn't 
much to do here. And that's fine, because baby goron's walls don't get any more 
pleasant. Talk to the baby and his caretakers and get out of there before 
you're driven to violence against your speaker system.

9)Defrost the Elder
-------------------

Baby goron isn't gonna shut up until he hears from 
daddy, and at the rate his father's moving, that isn't going to be anytime 
soon. The elder goron actually does get a bit closer to snowhead each day.

       When you find him, either bomb or goron punch away the snowball, and 
empty your hot water bottle. If you've already spoken to his son, he'll give 
you the first few notes of the lullaby that will finally send his colicky brood 
straight to sleep.

Learn the Goron Lullaby
-----------------------

The elder goron couldn't remember the whole 
song, but if you play whet you have for baby goron, he'll fill in the blanks 
and the goron lullaby will be saved to your song page. Play it here and now as 
a goron and baby goron will drop like a log, as well as every other goron in 
the hearing distance. If only the military could somehow harness the power of 
this astonishing lullaby technology!

       In addition to silencing the kid, this song is the key to entering the 
snowhead temple. And now that you have it, you'll never have to do any of the 
earlier stuff again.

Get Don Gero's Mask
-------------------

If you can use a deku stick to light all the 
braziers in goron village before the first one goes out, you can get the giant 
chandelier in the roof to start spinning. Then morph into a goron, head back to 
the red carpet outside of the baby's room, and do your goron roll over the ramp 
and into the chandelier-mounted pots. One of the five contains a big hunk of 
what the goron refer to, as rock sirloin.

       Grab that, and carefully carry it all the way back to frozen lake and 
toss it over to the shivering goron beneath the frozen waterfall. He'll reward 
you with don gero's mask, which lets you talk to frogs. When you bring together 
all five frogs you'll get a heart piece.

The Razor Sword
---------------

If you bring some hot water to the black smith and 
defrost his hearth, he'll express his gratitude by offering to severely 
overcharge you for a crappy sword.

       Yeah, it's not even close to worth it. The razor sword upgrade costs 100 
rupees, take a day, whenever you turn it in, it'll be ready the next morning, 
falls apart after 100 swings, and can not be taken back in time with you. It's 
fun to play with, but swordplay won't be much of a factor in the next dungeon, 
and you can get a permanent upgrade to the gilded sword after that. 

10)Roll to Snowhead
-------------------

After learning the full lullaby, warp back to the 
mountain village and head to the northwest. This windy road connects that 
village with Snowhead Mountain, but crossing it isn't easy. You'll need to 
transform into your goron form, do a goron roll, and hit the ramps at full 
speed to make it over the gulches.

       Goron rolling can be tricky at first. Hold down the A button and press 
gently forward to build up some steam, you'll start to flame, then the spikes 
will pop out. When the spikes come, press full forward, you don't need to hold 
it, and aim for the first ramp. You may want to slow down a bit for the tricky 
hairpin turn before the second ramp, but don't worry about the snowballs. When 
you're at full-speed, you'll plow right through them.

11)Play the Goron Lullaby: Activate Warp Point #5
-------------------------------------------------

No matter how careful you 
are when trying to cross this thin ledge, you'll be blown off into the abyss 
every time. If you want to know why, use your lens of truth: A giant invisible 
goron is blowing blizzards your way. But we know how to deal with gorons, don't 
we? Play your lullaby to stop the wind and send the bewitched goron tumbling 
down the mountain.

       Strike the owl statue, bottle an extra fairy from one of the small 
snowballs near the entrance, and carefully make your way to the mountain. When 
the snowballs roll your way, just give them a hearty goron punch.

       When you reach the mountain area, you'll be attacked by white wolfos, 
enemies that take more finesse to beat then your goron form can manage. Just 
roll on by and take the corkscrew path to the entrance of the second temple. 

Part 2-2: Snowhead Temple
-------------------------

1)Push the Sliding Block
------------------------

Either the goron or 
human Link can easily clear away the ice stalagmites in the entryway. Push the 
block behind then into the pit, and you'll end up in a chamber with three 
doors.

       You'll recognize the ice block on the middle door, but there's no hot 
water in here, so only fire arrows will do the trick. For now, just kill the 
wolfos and head into the door on the right.

2)Roll Across the Bridge
------------------------

The bridge across this lava pit is out, but a 
high-speed goron roll can make the leap. Avoiding the ice breath and rolling 
straight can take practice, but don't worry if you mess up: Lava doesn't hurt 
gorons. 

       Before you head into the door on the left, room D, transform into Link, 
jump across to the stairs, and take a brief detour for the dungeon map.

       There are two fairy bubbles here. Use the great fairy's mask and take 
two 
good bow shots from the north platform near the crate.

Get Dungeon Map
---------------

If you've dealt with the bomb dog in this room before, 
you'll know to keep your sword in its sheath. The weapon of choice for dealing 
with real bombchus is your shield; when they charge, whip it out and they'll 
bounce off and detonate harmlessly. After you grab the map and some rupees head 
down to room D.

       The fairy here is a cinch to get: It's right in the corner west of the 
chest.

3)Melt the Ice
--------------

Room D is a five-story chamber that connects every room in 
this dungeon, but most of them are frozen shut. But you can melt the one that 
leads back to room A by firing an arrow through the torch flame and into the 
ice. That shortcut will come in handy after we get the small hey in room E. If 
you drop down to level B1 of this room, you'll find a switch in the lava. Step 
on it as a goron and a chest with a fairy will appear.

4)Move the Block: Get Small Key
-------------------------------

The one door in room D that isn't frozen 
lead to this small room. Grab the blocks and pull them back to reveal a hidden 
alcove, and a chest with a small key.

       If you're collecting stray fairies, keep pulling the block into the 
farthest notch on the floor, when you get it right, you'll hear a chime. This 
will make a chest appear, and give you a way to get to it a bit later on.

5)Get Compass: Open Stairwell
-----------------------------

After melting the ice in room D, take that 
door back to room A, and use the small key to unlock the room on the left. 
There are a lot of ice blocks here, but all you can do now is fend off wolfos 
ambushes as you grab the compass. Then take a bomb or the blast mask and blow 
away the wall in the west, revealing a staircase to level B2.

6)Smash Ice Blocks: Get Small Key
---------------------------------

If you take a look towards the ceiling 
in this cavern, you'll see an icicle dangling precariously over each ice block. 
Fire a few arrows into each one to send them crashing into the chunks of ice 
that are blocking your path. Then jump from pillar to pillar until you get to 
the ledge with the big snowball. Bomb or goron punch it away and grab another 
small key.

       Use your lens of truth in the southeast corner of the room and you'll 
see 
a hidden alcove with a fairy chest inside. You can jump to it from one of the 
pillars.

7)Cross to Room D2
------------------

To solve this puzzle, transform into a goron, and do a 
goron press on switch #1, which cause switches #2 + 3 to rise. Then press #4 to 
raise #5, and press #2 to lower both it and #3 which gives you access to the 
door. Scramble up switch #4 before time runs out and leap back to the other 
side.

       This fairy is tricky to find... Use your bow, fairy's mask and lens of 
truth and aim straight up at the ceiling in the center of the room. 

8)Roll Across the Snowdrift
---------------------------

Our destination in the second floor of the 
main chamber is room I. getting there means goron-jumping across a snowdrift to 
the east side, and jumping another bridge from there.

       Crossing angled snowdrifts is easier than it looks. The trick is not to 
charge up to the flaming, spiky type of goron roll, but to maintain control and 
take it slow and steady instead. If you hit the wall and start to bounce, 
release the button and quickly start a new roll. If you mess up this time 
there's a net, but you won't be so lucky next time. So learn this skill while 
you can.

9)Wizrobe - Round 1
-------------------

This nasty mini-boss teleports from square to square, 
firing unblock able ice beams if you don't nail him with an arrow first. 
Defeating his first stage is simply a matter of quickly scanning the room, so 
you can spot him as soon as he pops up.

       But after a few hits, he gets tricky, and starts sending illusionary 
forms to every other square. The real one is the one that does what can only be 
described as "a jaunty little jig" as soon as it appears, so if you don't see 
that in the square you are facing, you know he's behind you. If you can't 
figure out which one is real in the first second or so, just cut your losses 
and try to dodge the shot.

       Victory earns you the fire arrows, which lets you melt those annoying 
ice 
blocks in one shot! If you're already into the final day, you may want to use 
the song of time. With the fire arrow in your arsenal, getting back to where 
you are now will be a snap.

10)Activate Room C Elevator
---------------------------

The door opposite of the wizrobe's room, in 
area D2, Leads to the top floor of the room where we found the dungeon map. You 
can get a new fairy by coming in from this side, and now that you have the fire 
arrow, you can use this room as a shortcut between floors.  If you stand on the 
platform in the center of the room and shoot both the freezard and the frozen 
eye switch with fire arrows, the platform will elevate you to the second floor. 

       You can get the second fairy here by using your lens of truth and 
hopping 
across the platforms.

11)Kill Freezards: Get Small Key
--------------------------------

For now, pass up the elevator and head 
back down the stairs to room B. smash the crate for a magic pot if necessary, 
and then go on a killing spree; One fire arrow for each freezard, and one for 
the ice block in between. 

       When you've eradicated the enemies, a chest will appear, containing this 
area's final small key. Grab that and head back out to room D to put it to 
immediate use. 

Pick Up 3 Fairies in Rooms E and F
----------------------------------

If you're collecting stray fairies, 
you'll want to head back to room F left from the dungeons entryway for three 
new fairies. First, melts the ice blocks to reveal a switch, which you can hit 
to create a sliding block. Push that near the ledge with the ledge with a chest 
to get one fairy, then to the northwest corner of the room. From there, toss a 
bomb onto the crate above the pillar by the bombed wall to reveal a fairy, lure 
it over with your mask, or do a rolling jump, and then jump to the other ledge 
and cross into room E.

       If you left the sliding block where you were supposed to, you can use it 
to jump across to the chest on the other side, and get your 10th fairy.

12)Light All the Braziers
-------------------------
13)Raise the Central Pillar
---------------------------

Head north or northwest 
in room D to this 2-story room with three doors, three braziers, and three 
freezards. Light all the braziers with your fire arrows and the center door 
will open. This will be easier if you kill the freezards first.

       If you mess up and fall, melt the frozen deku flower jump back up, if 
you 
run out of magic power, you'll find lots of magic pots on the lower level.

       The newly unlocked door leads to an alcove of room D2 with a goron 
press-
type switch. Activate it, and the central pillar will rise all the way to the 
top floor. This blocks some rooms you've already visited, but you can send it 
back by hitting the counter switch in the basement level of room D. but you 
should never need to do that.

       Kill all the freezards with fire arrows and a fairy chest will appear 
where indicated on your map.

14)Take a New Route to 3F
-------------------------

Getting around that big pillar isn't going to be 
easy. You'll need to drop down to the lowest level of room D, and take the 
stairs back up to 1F. Head into room B and take those stairs to room C, where 
you can activate the elevator to take you up to level 2F. from there, cross the 
snowdrift into the ice-blocked stairway and melt it down.

       That leads to the third floor of room D. it's a lot like the floor below 
it, but the snowdrift doesn't have a net. So if you mess up, you'll have to do 
it all over again. 

15)Continue up to 4F
--------------------

This room is full of snowball-tossing Eenos. Be 
aggressive and eradicate them all or risk taking a snowball in the back while 
you use your fire arrows to melt one last ice block.

       There's another hidden alcove here, so whip out that lens of truth and 
head to the southwest corner. 

16)Defeat the Lizalfos
----------------------

A pair of Lizalfos ambushes you in this room, but 
they're nothing you can't handle. You can use tried and true techniques, or 
nail them with fire arrows before they swing for two-shot kill. 

       These two fairies couldn't be easier to get. One rises from each of the 
fallen Lizalfos.

The Last Fairy
--------------

There's only one fairy left, and that's the one in the 
hidden alcove you might have noticed if you scanned the main chamber with your 
lens of truth, between the first and second floor. I guess you're supposed to 
use the deku flower on the fourth floor, but it's even easier if you use your 
lens, face the northwest corner of this pillar, and make a rolling jump in the 
alcove's direction.

17)Wizrobe - Round 2: Get Boss Key
----------------------------------

This Wizrobe has a bigger room and more 
possible appearance spots, but if you know the trick you'll find him to be much 
easier to beat than the first one. Just jump onto the ledge with the pots, 
break them all, and set up camp in that corner. From there, you can scan the 
entire battle field, so you'll immediately be able to figure out which is the 
real Wizrobe during his second phase. And if you mess up, it's no big deal; his 
shots will explode when they hit the ledge of your platform, and the ice spread 
won't be able to reach you in your corner. The only tricky part of this 
strategy is that you'll have to target him manually, but you should have the 
hang of that by now.

       When you beat him, both doors unlock, and you can take the north one to 
a 
small alcove with the boss key. Remember that you can't take this back in time 
with you, so if you use your ocarina of time to warp back, you'll have to 
battle this wizrobe all over again.

18)Shorten the Central Pillar
-----------------------------

Getting to the boss room is a bit 
complicated. You need to do a goron roll jump from the south side of the fourth 
floor, but the only way to get to that platform is trough the staircase on the 
third floor, the one that's full of snowballs.

       But the pillar has the entrance completely blocked. So you'll need to 
transform into a goron and make some alternations.

       Head over to the second floor, and use your goron punch to smash the 
blue 
sections into pieces. Then head up to the third floor and do the same. When 
you've busted all four, you'll be able to walk straight across to the snowball 
hall. Punch those away, head up to the fourth floor, and do your goron roll to 
leap over the bridge and into the boss room. 

19)Thaw Ghot
------------

You'd think we could just leave this guy frozen solid, chisel 
off the mask, and call it a victory for the forces of good. But Link likes to 
do thing the hard way, so get arrows and magic pots from the pots if necessary 
and let loose a fire arrow.

Masked Mechanical Monster: Ghot
-------------------------------

Ghot seems happy just to run around in 
circles and ignore you, but you need that mask he's wearing. So go goron and 
begin the chase, as a red-hot, full-speed spiky ball of rage, you need to catch 
up to him and sideswipe him to death. He'll attempt to stop you with long range 
lighting blasts, short range heat seeking blasts, and back-kicked bombs and 
chunks of turf. When he's using any of there weapons, stay away from the ramps, 
since you'll be sitting duck while air bomb. You should be able to get a bunch 
of hits each time you catch him, and if you can trip him up, you'll get a bunch 
more. As long as you're dodging effectively, you'll find Ghot to be one of the 
easiest bosses in the game. 

The Great Fairy's Boon
----------------------

If you've collected all 15 stray fairies, take 
them back to the snowhead fairy fountain and meet the fairy of wisdom. Her 
reward is incredible: A double length magic bar! This is a must-have for future 
challenges like the goron races, and takes a lot of the sting out of such magic 
sucking items as the lens of truth and special arrows. If you missed a few, go 
back and get those fairies! The prize is too good to pass up.

20)Biggoron's Apology
---------------------

Wondering what happened to the giant invisible goron 
who tried to stop you from entering snowhead? You can find him outside of the 
temple, way down south near the owl statue. Apparently he survived his fall, 
regained his visibility, and stopped being evil. So pay him a visit and have a 
nice chat.

Interlude: Spring in the Mountain Village
-----------------------------------------

Unfrozen Treasures
------------------

The veil 
of ice over the mountain village area has lifted... temporarily. As soon as you 
play the song of time, winter will reclaim this area unlit Ghot's nest defeat, 
so enjoy this taste of spring while you can.

       If you can find an invisible treasure chest containing 20 rupees in the 
little cave behind the waterfall. There's another 20 in the pit in the newly 
thawed passage linking the village basin with Darmani's Tomb. Frozen lake has 
also thawed, but its treasures are much too deep to be claimed by a human. 

1)Get Power Keg Certified
-------------------------

Return to goron village as darmani and you'll 
receive a hero's welcome. But accolades are fleeting in Majora's Mask, since 
all will be forgotten in the next cycle. The real reason to return to goron 
village is to hit the bomb shop. No, not the one inside, but the one outside, 
in the southeast chamber that was previously frozen over.

       They sell power kegs here, but they won't give them to just anyone. 
First 
you, as a goron, have to take a little test, which involves transporting a lit 
keg all the way to the rock-blocked cave near the previously-frozen lake. The 
fuse won't last forever, so hurry: Start by tossing the keg over the inclines 
in the cave, and rolling up after it. When you get to the giant rock by the 
lake, set it down and either wait for the detonation or set it off with an 
arrow. Return to the shop to receive your certification and a free power keg. 

2)Open the Goron Races
----------------------

The big rock you just blew up was blocking the 
goron's seasonal race track. Now that it's gone, the races will resume. That's 
good news for you, since a victory in the races is the first step towards 
earning the double-powered gilded sword.

       You may not be able to beat Ghot, get certified, win the races and get 
the sword forged all in one cycle. So start a new cycle if necessary and begin 
by buying a powder keg from the shop in goron village for 100 rupees or from 
the goron in the clock town bomb shop for 50 rupees. You can only hold one at a 
time, unfortunately.

The Treasure Game
-----------------

While you're in clock town buying your powder keg, 
take a little detour and play the east clock town treasure game. The prizes in 
this game differ based on which form you are, and the top prize, a heart piece, 
is reserved for your goron form only. 

3)Win the Goron Race
--------------------

The first and only prize in the goron races is a 
bottle full of gold dust, the item you need to upgrade the razor sword into the 
gilded sword. To claim the prize, you need to come in first, which is no small 
feat. Get an early start by jumping the gun and surging forward as 1 fades. 
Just go for speed in the first half, and make sure to stay away form the bomb 
plants, even if one of your opponents trips one, the blast could still hit you. 
When you get to the final leg, start getting violent! No matter how far ahead 
you are, your rivals will start catching up, and you'll need to smash them up 
to assure your victory.

4)The Gilded Sword
------------------

The gilded sword is awesome: It does all the damage of 
the razor sword, but it never breaks and you can take it back in time with you. 
But even when you have the goron races wired, doing everything you need to do 
to get it in one cycle takes planning.

       Take out 150 rupees in clock town when you begin a new cycle, and use 50 
of it to buy a powder keg. Them warp to snowhead and defeat Ghot to bring about 
spring. When that's done, drop your kokiri sword off with the smithy with 100 
rupees to get it forged into the razor sword, and then win the gold dust in the 
races. You need to bring it to the blacksmiths by the second night, because it 
will take them another day to make the gilded sword. 

Bombers' Notebook #6: Anju, Kafei, - Part 1
-------------------------------------------

The Anju and Kafei subplot 
is so long and involved we'll have to cover it in two parts. Their poignant 
love story is not only the key to a couple of exclusive masks and their 
respective Bombers' Notebook entries, but it's also an integral part of the 
notebook subplots of aroma. Dotour, the postman, and the curiosity shop 
proprietor. 

       The first step is to talk to anju at the stock pot inn between 1:30 and 
3:30 pm on the first day to get the inn key. Put on the kafei's mask you got 
from aroma in the mayor's house and talk to her again, you can do this part up 
until 7:30, and she'll ask to meet you that night in the kitchen.

       Use your inn key or sneak in through the upstairs door to meet her 
there. 
She'll give you a letter to post outside.

       Drop the letter in any mailbox and wait for the postman to pick it up. 
You can follow him back to the post office and then on his rounds as he 
delivers the letter later that day. When the postman rings the bell at the 
laundry pool, Kafei will run out to get the letter, and you can sneak into his 
hideout.

       He'll give you a memorial pendant to bring to anju. Do that, and then 
hand around until after 1 pm on the third day, when the door to kafei's place 
will be open again. But inside you won't find Kafei... he's run off to Ikana 
unless you already stopped the burglar on the first night.

       Instead you'll fins the curiosity shop guy, who gives you kafei's Keaton 
mask and a letter Kafei wanted you to deliver to his mother that is aroma. 
We'll discuss what to do with that in bomber's notebook #9.

Take the Keaton Quiz
--------------------

Finally, we meet the legendary Keaton! I always 
thought it was supposed to be a Pikachu the resemblance is disturbing, you must 
admit, but it is actually a three-tailed fox that's fond of pop quizzes. To 
summon him, go to one of the game areas where the little shrubs run away when 
you slash them, there's one in north clock town, milk road, and mountain 
village. Correctly answer three quiz questions, and you'll get a heart piece. 
If you lose, summon him again elsewhere, or in another cycle. 

Interlude 2: Romani Ranch
-------------------------

1)Cross Milk Road: Warp Point #6
--------------------------------

If you haven't 
visited milk road yet, start a new cycles and head over there. You'll find the 
entrance just past the takkuri bird's perch in termina field.

       The small are contains tingle, an owl statue, a detour that leads to the 
Gorman brothers camp, and one of those weed circles that can be used to summon 
Keaton.

2)Destroy the Boulder
---------------------

Up until this point, you've only been able to enter 
romani ranch on the third day, due to a giant boulder that blocks the road on 
the first two days. By the time the road is clear, the ranch has become a 
pretty miserable place: Romani's been lobotomized, the milk trade has been 
taken over by bandits, and the house is full of clock town refugees desperately 
trying to convince themselves that the few hundred yards they've put between 
themselves and the giant meteor's impact point will be enough to keep them from 
being vaporized instantly. It's not a pretty picture.

       But thanks to the boulder obliterating powder keg, you can now reach 
romani ranch on day 1, early enough to prevent romani's abduction, escort the 
mil wagon safely to clock town, and well... I guess everyone will still be 
vaporized by the meteor, but at least they'll meet their deaths with a smile on 
their faces and hope in their hearts. That's sort of an improvement. 

Bombers' Notebook #7: Grog, Cucco Shack's Breeder
-------------------------------------------------

If you discover that 
the world is about to be struck be a giant meteor and your only concern is for 
your poultry, then you have problems. And solving problems is what bombers' 
notebook is all about. So grant Grog his odd final wish by putting on the 
Bremen mask, holding down the B button, and marching around the Cucco shack 
until you have all 10 chicks lined up behind you. I', not too clear on the 
science here, but apparently strong leadership is all these chicks needed to go 
pop-pop-pop and turn into full grown cuccos. Weeping with freakish parental 
pride, Grog will give you the bunny hood.

Fun with the Bunny Hood
-----------------------
The bunny hood is one of the most useful masks 
in the game. It greatly increases Link's running speed and makes the range of 
all of his normal jumps equal to the range of rolling jumps, rolling jumps 
themselves are unaffected. It also helps you cheat on two mini-games: It lets 
you see the timer during the postman's time-keeping game, and lets you easily 
keep pace with the deku king's regent in the treasure room maze.

When Chickens Attack
--------------------
Brutalizing cuccos has been a beloved Zelda 
tradition since they were first programmed to fight back in the SNES legend of 
Zelda: a Link to the past, Majora's Mask keeps the tradition from ocarina of 
time alive: these chickens are quick to anger and are absolutely ferocious! It 
fun to try, but be prepared to flee from the cucco shack, because they'll rip 
Link to shreds in less than a minute. 

3)Agree to Help Romani: Learn Epona's Song
------------------------------------------

It's Epona! And malon... er, 
romani. But she's as spunky as her Oot counterpart, and once again, she's the 
key to learning epona's song. All you have to do is agree to help her defend 
against that scourge of dairy farmers everywhere; the annual onslaught of 
telekinetic undead alien cow-rustling ghost.

       Once you commit to the cause, she'll set up a training exercise for you. 
While mounted on Epona, you need to circle the farm shooting 10 ghost balloons 
n 2 minutes. Firing from horseback is easiest when you're coming straight at 
the target, so arrange a circular loop around that farm that will give you a 
straight shot at each of the ghost balloons (you need the map to do this).

       Succeed, and romani will teach you epona's song. And really, that's all 
you need to do here, Epona is yours, you can summon her at any time with the 
song, and that won't change even if you bail on poor romani and her sister, 
cremia. But if you're a man of your word, come back at 2 am. 

4)The Phantom Onslaught
-----------------------

Romani leaves the house at 2 am and heads straight 
to the barn. Follow her in and she'll reveal the battle plan: You go outside 
and face down wave after wave of the marauding phantoms, while she stays in the 
barn and sips hot cocoa. Sounds good!

       I know you practiced on Epona, but I fins that this part is easier on 
foot. Just stick near the barn, shoot them one by one, and run behind the house 
every few minutes to take out the pair that tries to sneak in from the 
northwest. No matter how many you kill, they'll just keep coming until sunrise 
at 5 am. Note that if you use the song of inverted time to slow down the game, 
this will take twice as long but the ghosts will move half as fast.

       Your prize is a bottle of milk, the regular, double-use healing kind, 
not 
the superior romani ranch milk, and the bombers' notebook seal for romani. The 
empty bottle is, of course, yours to keep.

       If you have some time to kill in real life, make sure to do this event 
again and fail, just to watch romani get abducted! She'll be returned to the 
farm, in dismal shape, on the third day.

5)A Date with Cremia
--------------------

If you successfully saved the cows from the spectral 
invaders, you'll find cremia in the barn on the second day. Agree to meet her 
south of the barn at six am, and you'll be drafted to escort her milk wagon to 
clock town. Don't be late!

       Also in the barn, you can do some milking yourself. Play epona's song 
for 
the cows and they'll fill one of your bottles with regular milk. You can do 
this to get milk from any cow in the game. 

The Doggie Racetrack
--------------------

The doggie racetrack is a good place to kill some 
time while you wait for your appointment with cremia. Just place a bet, pick a 
dog, and make some cash if your pick wins. If you earn 150 rupees in one 
session, not necessarily in one race, you'll also earn a heart piece. 

       There are some pretty tall odds, so you'll need an edge... and that edge 
is 
the mask of truth you can earn by clearing the swamp spiders house. Put it on, 
and lift up each dog in the field to hear what they have to say. If they are in 
it too win, they will be saying something like "My four paws fell lighter than 
usual today," or "Today I should do pretty well," or something to that effect. 
There will be a couple of contenders in every race, but if you pick one with 
that level of confidence, the odds are in your favor. 

6)Protect the Wagon!
--------------------

The evil Gorman brothers are willing to do anything 
to protect their stranglehold on the novelty dairy product industry, even if it 
means destroying cremia's milk supply!

       Only Link can save the shipment by keeping the brothers at bay with 
repeated arrow shots. It can be tricky to handle both at once, so alternate 
your shots until one shouts and lifts his pitchfork, indicating he's about to 
charge. Shoot that one full of arrows until he falls back again.

       If even one bottle of milk survives, you'll be rewarded with romani's 
mask, the "proof of membership" needed to enter the exclusive milk bar latte in 
clock town. You can purchase romani ranch milk there for 200 rupees o bottle! 
Which when consumed, basically gives you infinite magic for the rest of the 
cycle. You can also get a free fill up from cremia whenever you do this event 
again.

       If this event gives you trouble, try it again later while wearing the 
circus leader's mask and avoid the battle altogether!

7)Race the Gorman Brothers: Get the Garo's Mask
-----------------------------------------------

There's one more task to 
complete before you can get the Gorman brothers' seal in the bombers' notebook, 
and gain the mask that's needed to enter the Ikana area. Just ride Epona to the 
Gorman brothers' camp, west of milk road, and they will challenge you to a race 
for 10 rupees. 

       To win, stay close to the inside track, keep your carrots at mid-level 
until the very end by hitting the B button regularly but not excessively, and 
jump the gates which is only possible if you are at full-speed instead of going 
around. Watch out for sand pits, those can't be jumped and will always slow you 
down. You can try as many times as you like, so keep at it until you win the 
garo's mask. You will need it to complete you quest. 

Part 3-1: The Great Bay
-----------------------

1)Jump the Great Bay Gate
-------------------------

Leave clock town 
through the scenic west gate where there are always free rupees in the 
fountains, and play epona's song to summon your stead. San is not epona's 
favorite texture, but she will pick up enough speed to jump the blue and white 
gates that block the bay if you give her enough space and do not spare the 
whip. That is right; beat that beautiful newborn colt, you jerk! You do not 
need to worry about the leevers, since you are immune to enemy attacks while 
you are in the saddle.

       There is not much else happening in west termina. There's a submerged 
chest in the nearby lagoon, but you need to zora mask to get that. There is 
also a bombable rock between the gates, but you will need the zora mask to get 
the item that contains it, too. 

2)Push Mikau: Get Zora Mask
---------------------------

As soon as you enter the great bay, you will 
notice a flock of circling gulls to the south west. Swim out to see what they 
are so excited about, and you will see a half-drowned zora named mikau. Push 
him to shore, just swim against him for a while, in the direction of the beach. 
It won't look like you are moving him, but slowly and surely, you are.

       Alas, your noble efforts were in vain. Mikau is a goner, but when you 
play your song of healing, he will find peace and bequeath you with the zora 
mask, his fishbone guitar, and his role as guitarist in the VH-1-esque zora 
rock band, the indigo-gos. Read his grave for more info on how to use his 
abilities. 

3)Explore the Beach Area
------------------------

Before you take to the sea in your sleek new zora 
form, check out the pair of buildings in the southeast. The rundown building to 
the north is the second and final skulltula house, where you can get a giant's 
wallet and a heart piece. Unfortunately, you'll need the hookshot to get past 
the gate. The other building belongs to a fisherman. Talk to him as Link, and 
he'll express an interest in trading his golden seahorse for a photo of one of 
the female bandits that are the scourge of the bay. Behind his house is a pit 
with 20 rupee and the usual assortment of critters for your bottle. 

4)Visit the Marine Research Lab: Activate Warp Point #7
-------------------------------------------------------

Our next stop is 
the research lab in the middle of the bay. You can just pull yourself up onto 
the landing, or you can use this opportunity to practice a very useful 
technique we call the "dolphin leap". As a zora, swim at a fast speed just 
under the surface, and then pull back on the control stick right before you 
reach the raft. If you time it right, your zora form will do a graceful leap 
from the water and, rolling, on the raft. It doesn't look like much, but this 
move will let you reach coastal platforms that are too high to pull yourself up 
on. 

       From the raft, you can activate warp point #7, shoot down tingle, he is 
selling maps of the great bay for 20 and of the Ikana area for 40, and enter 
the research lab. Talk to the scientist there as a zora to here some unexpected 
and icky news about missing zora eggs. Apparently the zoras had planned to send 
him seven eggs to keep in his giant incubation tank, but the eggs never made 
it. You will need to go to the zora hall in south bay to find out what happened 
to the eggs, and how this relates to mikau's untimely death.

Feed the Fish
-------------

Take your empty bottle to a pit like the one south of the 
fisherman's house or one of the tidepools along the far north and the south 
coasts, and fill them with freshwater fish. Dump this fish in the smaller 
aquarium in the marine research lab, and the two captive fish will gobble them 
up. After about five helpings of seafood, one fish will eat the other fish and 
eventually burp out a heart piece.

The Zora Pit
------------

Back in termina field, there is a pit near the great bay 
gate that is blocked by a giant boulder. Blow up the boulder and you will find 
a pit with an underground pool guarded by bio deku babas that hangs from 
lilypads at the surface of the water. Shoot them if you want, but don't miss 
the hives on the ceiling: one contains a heart piece. You'll need to go 
underwater in your zora form to retrieve it. 

Bombers' Notebook #8: Gorman and Mr. Toto
-----------------------------------------

After gaining romani's mask 
and the zora mask, head back to clock town and visit the milk bar latte. You'll 
find both Mr. Toto and Gorman there after 10:00 pm on the first and second 
days.

       Talk to Mr. Toto and agree to help him with his sound check. Depending 
on 
which mask you're wearing, he'll ask you to stand in a different on stage and 
play a different piece of music. When all four Link's forms have played their 
pieces with their respective instruments, you'll get to see and hear them play 
as a quartet.

       Cheap-o Mr. Toto won't give you anything, but Gorman will be so moved 
he'll give you his circus leader's mask. This will prevent his brothers in milk 
road from attacking when you escort cremia's milk wagon.    

The Pot-Smashing Game
---------------------

There's a pair of zoras in the south bay that are 
holding a pot smashing game. The point is to destroy all five pots in a single 
shot... if your fail, they'll ask for 10 rupees for repairs. If you succeed, 
you'll get 9- rupees as a prize.

       This game was designed to test your zora form's boomerang power. Stand 
far back from the pots, right in between the 2 zoras, and let those boomerangs 
fly. Believe or not, the goron can play this game too. Just place a powder keg 
right in the middle of the pots and get the hell out of there. 

Kill the Waterfall Like Like
----------------------------

At night, both sides of the great bay 
become infested with like likes, annoying enemies that will eat Link's shield, 
you can get it back by killing them. In general, the best strategy is simply to 
avoid them. But there's one like like in the south bay that you'll want to pick 
a fight with. 

       You'll find it at the bottom of the pool under the waterfall in the 
south 
east. As a zora, sink to the bottom and stick to the sides, far from the like 
like in the center. Use your boomerangs to stun it, and then go in for a close 
combo of a flip kick. Repeat this trick to kill it and claim its heart piece.

5)Swim to Zora Hall: Activate Warp Point #8
-------------------------------------------

Zora hall is contained 
entirely in the belly of a giant fish. There are two entrances: One is 
underwater, through the fish's mouth, and the other is in the back, through 
the... the fish's ... uh... oh my God, that's disgusting!

       Um, anyway, the fish's mouth entrance is guarded by a like like which 
you 
can blast right through with the zora's barrier attack, while the um... other 
entrance is on a small island with an owl. It's here where you'll find Lulu, 
lead singer of the Indigo-gos and the mother of the missing clutch of zora 
eggs. She's currently too despondent to talk, so we'll have to look for the 
answers inside. 

6)Talk to the Indigo-Gos
------------------------

The zora hall is the indigo-gos concert pavilion. 
Link won't get far here- he's just another groupie to the zoras. But mikau, you 
zora form, is a member of the back and can come and go as he pleases.

       You can get some clues about the situation from Lulu's diary, the door 
farthest on the left, and you can confirm you coarse of action by talking to 
band-leader Evan in the room next door. 

Deed Trading Game #3
--------------------

If you talk to the akindo nut in lulu's room as a 
goron and trade him the mountain title deed you got near goron village, he'll 
leave his flower behind, allowing you to reach the heart piece in this alcove. 
Talk to him as any other species and he'll sell you green potions for 40 
rupees.

Fun in the Peanut Gallery
-------------------------

There are a couple of interesting thing 
happening in the balcony of the zora's hall. One zora complains that they can't 
start the concert until the lights are lit, so you can take care of that by 
shooting the wall-mounted torches with fire arrows. If you head down to the 
stage one of the stage hands will give you 5 rupees, but the concert still 
won't begin.

       A more disturbing indigo-go fan is offering cash for photos of lulu. So 
go ahead! Exploit lulu's grief by photographing her in a moment of personal 
anguish and selling the film to a potentially dangerous stalker. Enjoy your 20 
rupees, sleazebag!

Bombers' Notebook #9: The Postman & Madame Aroma
------------------------------------------------

If you've already 
received the Kafei mask from madame aroma and completed the postman's time-
judging mini-game, you've already completed half of these quests. The other 
half follows immediately after the first part of anju and kafei's subplot, when 
you return to kafei's hideout after 1 pm on the third day and receive the 
special delivery to mama from the curiosity shop guy.

       If you use your romani mask to hand deliver the letter of madame aroma 
at 
the milk bar latte that might, she'll reward you with an empty bottle full of 
romani ranch milk, this bottle will be very useful in the next part of the 
game. If you give the letter to the postman to deliver, after 7:00 pm that 
night, he'll give you his postman's hat. When you're wearing that, you'll be 
able to open all the mail boxes in town! And the first time you do so, it 
doesn't matter which one, you'll find a heart piece.

7)Gerudo Fortress
-----------------

It's clear that the band of female pirates that the 
North Bay fisherman spoke of are responsible for at least some of the missing 
eggs. Grab as many empty bottles as you can get, four would be ideal, so do the 
madame aroma subplot shown before, and then head back to the North Bay. You'll 
find the entrance to the hideout underwater, near the metal gate to the north. 
Swim into the wood barriers to break them open and reveal the lair's hidden 
entrance.

8)Infiltrate the Hideout
------------------------

This area is just like the Gerudo fortress in 
ocarina of time. Instead of regular enemies, you have to avoid crossing the 
line of sight of the female thieves that patrol this compound. If you get 
caught; you'll be expelled back to the great bay and have to do it all over 
again. Inside lie the first four zora eggs and the very useful hookshot.

       Your other objective is to get a photo of one of the thieves to trade to 
the fisherman. He's not too picky, so it doesn't have to be a great shot.

       You can use your bow or deku nuts to stun thieves, allowing you to sneak 
past them for a few seconds. But those aren't the only items that are useful 
here: you can walk right under the thieves' noses undetected with an item 
called the stone mask. To get it, do the bombers' notebook entry of the stone 
mask. Using that here sort of crosses the line between playing smart and 
outright cheating, so I wouldn't recommend it unless really having trouble with 
this part. 

9)Breach the Sea Wall
---------------------

The first line of security here is the fleet of 
motorboats circling the harbor. Wait for a gap, dive into the water, and then 
sink to the bottom, as a zora. You can raid the three chests here for 20 rupees 
each, or simply swim underwater to the ramp in the north. In the next gap 
between boats, climb up the ramp, switch to your goron form, and do your smash 
attack on the ground switch. Later on, you can use you hookshot to cross 
directly to the door in the northeast.

       After you trip the switch, drop back in the water and swim to the now 
unlocked green ventilation duct in the southwest corner. You can use that to 
sneak into the compound's underground sewage and ventilation systems.

10)Cross the Cage Maze
----------------------

Swim straight at the skull+crossbones board to smash 
through it. Then pull the first block towards you before you circle around the 
cages. Keep an eye out for the stretch where there's no ceiling: you can float 
up through it and then get the chest containing 20 rupees atop the cage in the 
center of the room. When you sink back to the bottom of the maze, push in the 
second block all the way and simply loop around to the exit. So, not much of a 
maze after all, really.

11)Hit the Switch and Run: Grab the Heart Piece
-----------------------------------------------

To snag the heart piece 
from the locked cage in the south part of this room, go to the second floor and 
smash all the barrels by rolling into them, using bombs, or goron punches. Trip 
the foot switch you reveal, and immediately roll down to the cage, if you just 
run, you won't make it in time.

       Opening the gate in the southeast requires the same basic strategy. From 
where the barrels were, shoot the crystal switch, preferably with the zora's 
boomerangs, to save time, and then dive into the water and swim fro the gate. 
Watch out for the mines!

12)Ride the Geyser Up
---------------------

Carefully swim over the vents and mines on the other 
side of the gate, until you reach the room at the end of the hall. Here you'll 
find a foot switch, a round bit a grating, and a crystal switch. Trip the foot 
switch first, then run onto the grating and use your bow to shoot the crystal 
switch. This will activate a geyser to lift you to the higher level.

       Step off the geyser as soon as you reach the second floor, or you may 
end 
up hitting a ceiling mounted mine. Climb up the ladder to the telescope, and 
get a sneak peek at the second part of the compound. Then turn around and shoot 
the first hanging mine so it smashes into the second. That will give you a 
clear shot at the crystal switch that opens the door.

13)Stock Up and Head In
-----------------------

The pots and barrels in the last room come back 
every time you leave and enter again, so you may want to do that a couple of 
times to fill up on arrows. Afterwards, cross the narrow catwalk, don't worry 
no one can see you up here, in the center of the compound. If you get caught 
from this point on, you'll be sent back here. 

14)Sneak into the Boss' Lair
----------------------------

Your first goal is to get into the third floor 
room just past the suspension bridge. It's a snap if you're using the stone 
mask, but if you're up for a challenge you can do things the hard way. Watch 
the guards that circle the watchtower and rush in behind the crates when you 
see a break. From there, shoot the guard at the base of the tower, run to the 
ladder, and climb halfway up. Wait for the guard on the bridge to turn her back 
to the ladder, then run up and shoot her from behind.

       There's actually an easier route inside, which is to just run for the 
stairs. But that puts you in a different part of the boss' room, and is harder 
in the long run.

15)Get the Hookshot: Get Zora Egg #1
------------------------------------

If you came in from the stairs, you'll 
have a tough time weaving through the guards to get within range of the hive of 
the boss' head. But if you come in from the suspension bridge, you'll be in 
prime position to nail it with an arrow. Either way, when the hive hits the 
floor, the thieves will be chased from the room.

       The guards never come back, so you can take your time getting the 
hookshot from the chest. Aim it at the wood beam above the tank, and from there 
dive into the tank as a zora. The shell blade is difficult to kill, so you may 
as well just ignore it. Just drop to the bottom, use an empty bottle to snag 
the zora egg and get out of there. Make sure to double check the bottle, 
though... every now and then you'll snag a fish by mistake.

16)Get Zora Egg #2
------------------

This door is easy to miss if you don't carefully explore 
the south wall with your hookshot; none of the other doors down there go 
anywhere. There's a small barrel maze, where you can easily evade the one guard 
until you're close enough to pop her with your hookshot.

       The next room contains a pirate you can't hide from: a dual-bladed 
warrior who must be beaten in combat to progress. She's not too though, 
actually, just use your hookshot to stun her when she gives you an opening, and 
follow it up with a jumping slash. The zora egg tank is just beyond.

17)Get Zora Egg #3
------------------

Take your time on this one, since there's a guard 
patrolling the strip between the hookshot target and the barrel. Wait until her 
back is turned, then stun and run.

       The large, heavily guarded chest n the next room contains 100 rupees. 
It's hard to get to it without being caught, but it is possible to stun all the 
guards, hookshot to the chest, and get away before they arise. Or skip the 
chest and just hookshot from rafter to rafter in to the next room. There you'll 
fight another pirate duel, try using deku nut for an easy stun, and zora egg #3 
is right beyond.

18)Get Zora Egg #4
------------------

The T-shaped hall way in this area is patrolled by a 
guard who turns at unpredictable times, so your best set is to stun her before 
you hang a left and head to the duel chamber.

       After beating a third and final pirate warrior, you'll find the tank 
with 
the last zora egg in this area. It's guarded by bonefish, so kill then with you 
hookshot before you jump in. 

19)Drop the Eggs at the Lab
---------------------------

There are seven missing zora eggs, but the 
pirate only had those four. The others sank near pinnacle rock, our next 
destination. Remember that you haven't actually accomplished anything yet-if 
you play the song of time before you get all the seven eggs, you'll lose them 
all, so don't dawdle! Warp back to the great bay, and dump your eggs into the 
big tank. Then take your photo to the fisherman's house.

20)Trade for the Seahorse
-------------------------
21)The Pinnacle Rock Area
-------------------------

The fisherman will gladly hand 
over the seahorse when you show him you pictograph box, but you'll need an 
empty bottle to carry it, so dump those eggs first. Take the bottle and swim to 
the two stone spires in the North Bay. Drop to the seafloor and walk on through 
to enter the undersea pinnacle rock area, where heavy currents will sweep you 
back to the North Bay if you make the slightest misstep. You can't see them, 
but the seahorse can: Release it and follow its every movement to make it 
safely to the deep sea snake pit.

22)Get Zora Eggs #5-7: Reunite the Sea Horses
---------------------------------------------

There are eight holes in this 
deep pit, each a home to a giant sea snake. Three pits contain zora eggs, but 
if you kill all eight snakes, you'll also save the seahorse's mate and earn 
yourself a heart piece.

       To lure the snake from their holes, just swim past the entrances and 
wait 
for them to pop out. Then swim at them using you barrier attack, and after two 
hits they'll disappear. You can also use your zora boomerangs for easy wins 
against the snake at the bottom. If you run out of magic, search the floor of 
the pit and the holes of the defeated snakes for magic pots.

The New Wave Bossa Nova
-----------------------

When you've placed the final zora eggs in the 
tank, all seven will hatch, forming the notes of the new wave bossa nova. Whip 
out your guitar and rock along. Then play the song of time and take a breather.

23)Hitch a Ride to the Temple
-----------------------------

When you're ready to challenge the next 
temple, warp to zora hall and play the new wave bossa nova as a zora for lulu. 
This will move her to song, and awaken the turtle just off the coast of zora 
hall. When you then, hookshot onto its back, it will offer to take you to the 
great bay temple.

Win the Beaver Races
--------------------

Now that you have the hookshot, there are o bunch 
of previously inaccessible areas you can now reach. This includes the area in 
the southeast part of the South Bay where indigo-gos leader Evan said you may 
find another empty bottle. The rumor is true, but the beaver who are its 
current owners won't give it up without a fight.

       Hookshot up to the tree on the lowest ledge, and then use the chests and 
foliage on the other ledges to get to the cave near the waterfall. The beaver 
will challenge you to a simple underwater race where you have to swim through 
every life preserver, in order, under a certain amount of time. It's pretty 
easy, actually... just get a good running dive and then stay right on the 
beaver's tail for the whole race.

       You have to beat the first beaver in under 2:00 and his brother in 2:30, 
to get the empty bottle. Challenge them again for the heart piece, and you'll 
have to beat 1:50 on both races.

The North Bay Cliff Cave
------------------------
Return to Snowhead Path
-----------------------

There are two more 
heart pieces that requires the hookshot, but you'll need some help from an old 
friend to get them. Visit Pierre the scarecrow at the item shop or astral 
observatory and play him an original tune of your own crafting with any 
instrument. Then grab some spring water and magic beans from the akindo nut at 
the southern swamp, and warp to the North Bay.

       Use your hookshot to travel the ledges in the area shown from south to 
north, there's a cow pit in the middle, and then plat the magic bean at the 
fourth ledge. The flower will take you to a grassy niche where you can play the 
scarecrow song to make a hookshot target right outside the cave with the heart 
piece.

       Then warp to snowhead and roll south to snowhead path. Right after the 
first jump, use you magic lens to see the string of floating platforms that 
lead to the east. Get as close as you can, then summon Pierre and use you 
hookshot to get that heart piece.

Mikau's Indigo-gos Tune
-----------------------

In zora hall, go to mikau's room, the one just 
to your right as you enter the main chamber. Use your hookshot to get to the 
second floor room and read mikau's diary.

       Then head to the bassist's room and whip out your own guitar while you 
have him z-targeted. He'll invite you to a jam session, where you can finish 
his songs with the notes you read in mikau's diary. 

       Evan, demonstrating the same megalomaniacal attitude that tragically 
broke up the real go-go's, is too big of a jerk to accept songs from other 
members of his band. So you'll need to approach as Link and play the dong for 
him on your ocarina. Then cede him the worldwide recording rights and all 
future royalties in exchange for one measly heart piece.

Spider House #2
---------------

With the hookshot, you can finally clear the gate that 
blocks the entrance to the Oceanside spider house.

       If you find and claim all 30 gold skulltula tokens, you'll earn the 
giant's wallet... but only if you can do it on the first day of the cycle, 
after 
that, the prize is rupees.

       You'll also find a puzzle inside the house. If you shoot the masks near 
the skeletons in the right order you'll get a heart piece. 

Part 3-2: Great Bay Temple
--------------------------

1)Ride the Turtle to the Temple
-------------------------------

The turtle 
takes you right to the temple's entrance, a simple room with a few braziers, 
light them for a fairy, and a bunch of barrels. Smash the barrels for bombs, 
arrows, and healing fairy if you need supplies. If you want to leave the temple 
prematurely, just hookshot onto the turtle's back.

       Light all four braziers before the first one burns out, and a chest 
containing the first stray fairy will appear. 

2)Activate the Waterspout
-------------------------

The fun begins! Turn into a zora and swim to the 
underwater yellow switch in the northeast corner of the room. Pull it, or push 
it, depending on which side you're on, to open a flow of water to the 
waterspout near it. Now you can jump from the lift to the platform in the 
southeast corner, watch out for the big skulltula on the platform - use your 
hookshot to kill it easily, jump onto the waterspout, and cross to the other 
side.

       Ignore the other switches for now. The yellow one will turn off the 
waterspout that's causing the wheel to rotate, and shut off the lifts, and the 
red one will activate a waterspout that makes the wheel turn the other way. But 
first you'll need to turn switches in several other rooms to open the flow of 
water down the red pipe. No one said this would be simple!

       There are two fairies here. The first is in an underwater bubble under 
the entrance platform. The other appears when you kill the big skulltula on the 
southwest platform, with the rupees. 

3)Ride Current to Room D
------------------------

Things get more complicated in room C. the 
underwater part of this three-story room contains six exits, but the current 
caused by the spinning flywheel, which is powered by the waterspout in the last 
room, will only let you enter two of them at the moment.

       The one you want is on the southeast corner of the top row. Let yourself 
get sucked into it and it will take you to room D.

       Swim to the west side of the top floor, or jump across on the flywheel, 
and smash the barrel on top of the ladder for an easy fairy. The second is in 
the pot, all the way at the bottom, in the dead center of the room. The easiest 
way to get it is to fire an arrow all the way down from the top ledge, and lure 
the fairy up with your fairy mask.

4)Get Dungeon Map: Clear Path to Room F
---------------------------------------

If you took the right passage, the 
current will spit you out into room D, if you took the wrong one, you can hop 
into a nearby passage to get pulled back into room C. swim to the north ledge 
in room D and use your hookshot to get to the chest that contains the dungeon 
map. Then go back to your zora form, and sink to the bottom. The path to room 
F, further east, is blocked by two dexi-hands, which can only be killed by the 
zora form's boomerangs. Don't try to swim past... They're quick. 

       Use your hookshot to smash this pot, and then use the fairy's mask to 
attract the stray.

5)Cross Room E
--------------

There are four bio deku babas in this short tunnel. You can 
take them out with a well-aimed electric blast, swim and hold the R button, or 
cut them down with your boomerangs, don't use the z-target lock, and deal with 
the remnants on the ground. 

       Kill all four dekus, and a chest with a fairy appears. 

Get Compass: Get Small Key
--------------------------

Use your hookshot to neutralize the bio deku 
babas, and then hop across their pads until you're close enough to hookshot 
over to the chest containing the compass. Then turn into a zora, sink to the 
bottom, boomerang the dexi-hand, and snag the first small key. Watch for the 
dekus and bonefish that may be lurking underwater.

       A fairy is in a pot in the southeast waterway. You can hit the pot with 
your hookshot from the ledge.

6)Take the Current to Room G
----------------------------

Jump into the waterway with the fairy pot and 
you'll be swept back to room C. from there, swim to the bottom and take the 
other open passage to the room shown here. Ignore the shell blade clams on the 
ground and the octoroks on the surface, and climb from the water onto the red 
pipe. Balance carefully, and that will lead you to the door where you can use 
your small key.

7)Destroy Wort: Get the Ice Arrow
---------------------------------

The first room contains nothing but a 
pair of chuchus that you can kill for unlimited arrows and magic pots. You 
might as well stock up, but I prefer to use the trusty hookshot against wort, 
who's waiting on the ceiling on the next room. Look up, and it'll drop down to 
fight.

       Use the hookshot to pull away its bubbles, and stab them with your 
sword. 
Keep this up until you get a clear shot at its big eye, the hookshot does as 
much damage a arrows, so there's no point switching. When wort lets loose all 
its bubbles, switch to your sword, cut a path to wort, and give it a few more 
nasty pokes in the eye. 

8)Turn the Red Crank
--------------------

The ice arrow is a lot more useful in majora's mask 
than it was in ocarina of time. Not only can it make icebergs on water, it can 
also turn enemies into ice blocks! Try it out on an octorok in room G, then hop 
across its frozen body and turn the first red crank. 

9)Cross to Room I
-----------------

Head back to room C, and then into the passage to room 
D. fire ice arrows to make a bridge you can use to hop across to the south 
door.

10)Turn the Second Red Crank
----------------------------

Getting to the crank in this room is simple. 
Fire an ice arrow at the chuchu to turn it into a sliding block, quickly push 
it to the crank, and use it to pull yourself up. You may want to lure the 
chuchu closer to the crank first, so it won't melt prematurely. Then turn the 
crank, smash some barrels, and head back out.

11)Defeat Mad Jelly: Get the Boss Key
-------------------------------------

Repeat the loop you took last time to 
get to room F, through the tunnel east of room D. then make another ice bridge 
to get to the passageway with the icicles in the north part of this room. 
Switch to fire arrows to melt the ice block, and head inside to face a Gekko, 
and his sinister pet, mad jelly.

       Use fire arrows or regular arrows to nail gekko when he's about to throw 
a slime. He'll gather the slime and leap to the ceiling. Quickly hit it with an 
ice arrow while it is hanging from the ceiling, and it will freeze, crash to 
the floor, and break into pieces. Switch to fire arrows, and take another shot 
at gekko.

12)Reverse the Flywheel
-----------------------

To get back to room B, you can take the waterway in 
room F back to room C, or play the song of time to warp back to the beginning 
of the dungeon.

       If you've turned all the red cranks, the waterspout in the northeast 
corner will be active. Aim you hookshot at the target above the waterspout, and 
jump from there to the final red crank. Turn it to activate the second red 
waterspout, and then turn the yellow rank in the middle of the room. With only 
the red waterspout active beneath the gear, the flywheel in room C will begin 
turning in the other direction.

13)Turn the First Green Crank
-----------------------------

We can go to the boss room now, but we won't 
get far until we open un the green pipe. The first green crank is in the room 
north of room C: fire an ice arrow at the source of the waterfall in room c to 
plug that up and gain entry.

       Once inside, hookshot to the barrels in the center, kill the tektites, 
and make an ice bridge to the green crank.

       Here's a tricky one... look for a hole in the ceiling grating north of 
the 
yellow platform. Make an ice bridge to a spot under, near the wall, and 
hookshot from there onto the roof. A fairy chest awaits you up there.

14)Ride Current to Room L
-------------------------

Now that you have reversed the current, you can 
get into a few new rooms. Jump in the water in room C, and swim into the top 
level passage, on the east, that used to flow backwards from room F.

       That passage will now sweep you right through room F, and into room L.

15)Freeze the Gears
-------------------

The trick here is to freeze the waterfall that's 
turning the gear at just the right moment, so the flywheel ends up more or less 
horizontal, allowing you to use it as a bridge to the door. You'll need to fire 
an ice arrow while you're in the northwest lift, going up, and still a bit 
below the gear. It will take a couple of tries to get the timing right; if you 
mess up, melt your ice block with a fire arrow and try again.

       When you get it right, do a rolling jump from the lift onto the gear, 
and 
carefully make your way over the door.

       There are two fairies here, in the chests located in the north and 
southeast alcoves. The get the fairies, you'll need to hookshot to the chest 
from various points on the gear, or from the horizontal lift in the northwest.

16)Turn the Final Crank
-----------------------

Use ice and fire arrows to turn on and off the 
waterfalls that hold the teeter totters up. Use that to get to the crank, turn 
it, and use the same method to get to the exit.

       Two more fairies here. One is in the pool under the first teeter totter; 
sink down as a zora and smash the barrel. To get the other, climb across the 
pipe from the gear to the chest in the southwest. Zora Link is tall enough to 
pull himself over the kinks in the pipe.

17)Confront Gyorg
-----------------

This part is easy if you have done everything right. Go 
through the passage at the bottom of room C, to the south, and you'll end up 
here. Float to the surface, climb up the pipe, turn the last green crank, and 
hop across the water spout to face the boss.

       One of the fairies is in the passage that leads back to room C. Pop it 
with your boomerangs and swim to get it. The other is under the gear, and you 
can shoot at it from the pipe.

Gargantuan Masked Fish GYORG
----------------------------

Gyorg is a fairly easy boss if you have 
mastered the zora technique of leaping like a dolphin from underwater. If not, 
you'd better have full health or a recovery fairy, because you probably won't 
be able to hit Gyorg without taking a hit or two in return.

       As human Link, stand in the center of the platform and scan for bubbles 
rising to the surface of the water. Then run to that side of the platform 
quickly z-target Gyorg, and fire a regular arrow, if you are not quick, he'll 
try to knock you into the water. That will stun him for a few seconds, just 
enough time for you to slap on your zora mask, dive into the water and hit him 
with the zora r-button barrier attack. Then do your dolphin leap directly back 
onto the platform. If you have to swim to the ledge and pull yourself up, Gyorg 
will probably catch up and gulp you down before you can make it. 

       Eventually, Gyorg will release a bunch of baby fish, but this won't 
really affect you strategy. Ignore them and keep alternating arrow and barrier 
attacks until Gyorg id toast.

The Great Fairy's Boon
----------------------

When you catch all 15 stray fairies, take them to 
the fairy fountain in the rocky shoals of south bay. You will need to use your 
hookshot to get there, and bring a regular bomb to blow up the rock that is 
blocking the cave.

       The fairy's prize is double length life bar, represented by a white 
border around your heart containers. That means every enemy now does half the 
damage it used to! Congratulations: As far as combat is concerned, you are now 
basically immortal.

The Great Bay Jumping Game
--------------------------

Now that the temple has been cleared, the 
fisherman in the north bay is back in business, holding a daily jumping game. 
Swim to the western tip of the coral reef north of the beach area, and wait for 
his boat to come by. Hop aboard, take a brief ride, and then hookshot onto the 
tree in the circle of five small islands. Pay the man 20 rupees and jump to the 
middle. Then simply jump to whichever island has a lit torch. It is an easy 
game: You only need to do it 20 times to get a heart piece. 

18)The Indigo-Gos Play at Last
------------------------------

Now that lulu has recovered and the great 
bay has been cleared, there's nothing stopping the indigo-gos from playing 
their long-awaited concert. When you return to the hall, you will find the 
zoras assembled on the balcony above the stage. Transform into your zora form 
and talk to lulu on stage to start the concert. You do not get anything for 
doing this, but it is not a bad show. 

Don Gero's Frog Quintet
-----------------------
The Unfrozen Lake Chest
-----------------------

After defeating the 
gekko mini-bosses in both the great bay and woodfall temples, you may have 
noticed both turned into frogs. That's five total frogs we have seen so far, 
the entire don gero quintet.

       To assemble the five frogs, you have to defeat ghot to bring about 
spring 
in the mountain village, and then put on your don gero's mask and talk to all 
five frogs in the same cycle. This means beating both gekko mini-bosses and 
talking to the frogs they leave behind, as well as the frog in clock town, the 
frog in the southern swamp, and the frog that appears after beating ghot. When 
they all assemble on the lily pads in mountain village, lead them in song and 
get a heart piece.

       That is a lot of work for a little reward, but you can pick up a second 
heart piece by diving to the bottom of the now-unfrozen lake east of the 
mountain village.

Bombers' Notebook #10: The Curiosity Shop Guy
---------------------------------------------

Once you have completed 
the event in anju and Keaton's subplot that involves the curiosity shop guy, 
where he gives you the letter for madame aroma, you have only one thing left to 
do stop the burglar in the bomb shop woman event, then show up after 10PM on 
his shop on the third day, and buy the all-night mask. It costs 500 rupees, an 
amount you can holds if you have won the giant's wallet at the Oceanside spider 
house.

Anju's Grandmother
------------------
The all-night mask has one use: preventing Link from 
falling asleep. The only time he falls asleep is during the long stories told 
by Anju's grandma. With this mask on, you can visit her at the stock pot inn 
and stay awake through both stories. In the first story answer the question 
correct, and in the second answer wrong. Each time earns a heart piece.

Part 4-1: Ikana Canyon
----------------------

1)East to Ikana Canyon
----------------------

       There's virtually nothing of interest in East Termina field. The only 
pit 
is on one of the column-sand to get it, you'll need a magic bean, some water, 
and a good sense of timing. But since the prize is just a bombchus, you are 
better off skipping it altogether.

       The enemies in this area include real bombchus, during the day, and blue 
bubble during night. Your shield is the best weapon for both: It will knock 
back the bombchus which will then detonate and extinguish the blue glow of 
bubbles, allowing you to attack them safely with you sword or you can just 
shoot them with arrows.

       You'll be immune to damage while you are riding Epona, which is 
necessary 
to jump the gate, but the detonating bombchus will slow you down and the pesky 
bubbles can still curse you. The curse is just annoying; it prevents you from 
using your sword fro a minute.

2)The Canyon Pass Area
----------------------

You'll need to carefully avoid the enemies in this 
area to get enough speed to jump the pair of metal fences. There are a few 
hidden things on the way, but nothing really worth stopping for. The secret pit 
under the Goron-punch able red rock in front of the first gate only contains a 
bombchus, and the hidden pot atop the t-shaped rock (you can get to it with the 
scarecrow's song and hookshot) contains a recovery fairy.

       If you approach the west cliff while wearing the Garo's Mask, the 
spectral Watchman will raise a hookshot target so that you can pass. But for 
now pull yourself up onto the small ledge to the north, and we'll explore the 
Ikana Graveyard.

Bombers' Notebook #11: Shiro, the Invisible Soldier
---------------------------------------------------

If you do a bit of 
exploration in the canyon pass, you'll notice a mysterious circle of rocks. Use 
your Lens of Truth to see the secret: It's Shiro, a fallen guardsman in 
desperate need of medical attention.

       Bring him a red potion and he'll recover his vitality and visibility. 
He'll also reward you with the stone mask, probably the most useful optional 
mask in the game!

       As long as you wear this, you are as invisible to enemies as Shiro was. 
Try it out on the Bombchus and Nejiron in this area; they'll ignore you 
completely if you don't run into them or something. It will also let you breeze 
right through the pirate hideout area!

Secrets of the Graveyard
------------------------

The Ikana graveyard in manned once again by 
Dampe the gravedigger, who somehow managed to retain his name from Ocarina of 
Time. He hides in his house by night, when the graveyard is taken over by 
undead Stalchilds, and patrols during the days, when the only enemies are bad 
bats. 

       The bad bats do get a little annoying, especially on the second day, 
when 
they are out in force. Kill them all while Dampe is in the graveyard (on that 
day only) and he'll reward you with 30 rupees. The only other secret here is 
the hidden pit in the ring of stones: Bomb it open and get five bombchus.

3)Awaken Skull Keeta: Get the Captain's Hat
-------------------------------------------

The massive arch in the north 
part of the graveyard is blocked by a large skull. Play you sonata of awakening 
to make the great skull Keeta rise, and then slap on you Bunny Hood and chase 
him through the northern loop.

       Whenever you are near the metal barriers, a wall of fire will appear. It 
won't be dispelled until you kill the two Stalchilds that appear, so finish 
them quickly with a single horizontal slash. If you are a good shot, you can 
slow skull Keeta down by shooting him in the legs with arrows; if not, just 
run.

       When you catch him, go wild with you sword (you can continue to stun him 
with arrows too). He's easy to defeat if you watch out for his shadow when he 
tries to jump above Link.

       If you lose the chase or the battle, you can start again by leaving the 
graveyard and re-entering. When you do catch him and win his respect, hookshot 
over to his chest and grab his captain's hat.

4)Grave Smashing - 1st Night: Learn the Song of Storms
------------------------------------------------------

Wear your captain's 
hat in the graveyard at night, and you'll be able to order around the grave-
circling Stalchilds. Each night they guard a different grave, and if you tell 
them to open it, they'll do so with verve. If you do that on the first might, 
they'll create a pit to a three room dungeon.

       Kill all the bad bats in the second room and a chest with 50 rupees will 
appear. This will also make it easier to shoot the three braziers with fire 
arrows, unlocking the door to the final room. There you'll face an Iron 
Knuckle. It look tough, but its horizontal swings are too high to hit Link if 
he's close, and the vertical swings are easily dodged. So stay close and 
swiftly cut it to pieces. The curtain will lift, and the spirit Flat will teach 
you the song of storms.

Grave Smashing - 2nd Night
--------------------------

The grave that the Stalchilds encircle on the 
2nd night leads to a different area of the same dungeon. Use you lens of truth 
to see  the hidden door, and see the invisible Keese and skulltulas in the room 
beyond. Bomb the wall there to enter the final room, where you can fight an 
Iran Knuckle to win a heart piece.

Grave Smashing - 3rd Night
--------------------------

You'll find part-time treasure hunter Dampe 
wandering around in the crypt that the Stalchilds can smash open on night 
three. Dampe is too blind to see where he's going, but if you leads him to each 
of the six sand pits in the room, he'll dig them up. To do that, simply z-
target him and slowly walk to each pit. To lead him to the two elevated pits, 
guide him to the brown platforms at the far end of the room. They'll lift him 
to the far sand pits, but you need to run over and meet him there with your z-
target, or he'll just fall back off. There's one floor master enemy here, so 
watch for it shadow, then dodge and kill it before it makes your life 
miserable.

       When the big poe appears, block its attacks and then pelt it with arrows 
to kill it. The chest that appears contains an empty bottle.

5)East to Ikana Canyon
----------------------

At the east end of the canyon pass, you'll find a 
sheer cliff blocking the way to Ikana. The watchman won't let you pass as you 
are, but if you wear the Garo's Mask he'll raise a tree you can use as a 
hookshot target.

       The path beyond is full of Nejiron enemies that explode when they're 
hit. 
But if you wear your stone mask, they won't bother you.

6)Battle the Garo
-----------------

Whenever Tatl senses a presence in Ikana, you know 
there's a Garo nearby. Put on your Garo's Mask to lure it out, and kill it 
easily by blocking its dive and hitting it while it's down. The bested Garo 
will then give you information about the Ikana area, so fight the whenever you 
can.

7)Cross the Washed-Out Bridge: Activate warp Point #9
-----------------------------------------------------

The only way to 
cross this broken bridge is to use your ice arrow. Freeze both Octoroks to get 
to the other side, where you can easily ascend the Ikana cliff with three 
hookshot shots. Up top you'll fins Tingle selling maps of this area for 20 and 
clock town for 40, and an owl statue.

       There are tons of places to go here, but the one that interests us now 
is 
the cave far to the north, the apparent source of the dry river bed that cuts 
through the canyon. To get there, you'll need to pass by the music box house 
,which is surrounded by Gibdos. Keep you distance: Gibdos are lethal and can't 
be killed (although you can turn then into ReDeads by shooting them with fire 
arrows). The house is locked up anyway.

8)Restore the River
-------------------

The Ikana cave is the home of sharp, Flat's equally 
dead brother. He'll attack you viciously until you play the song of storms. 
That will restore the Ikana river, turn the wheel of the music house, and 
ultimately kill all the Gibdos. Score!

       Incidentally, you can also use the song of storms to cure yourself if 
you 
are ever cursed by blue bubbles.

Deed Trading Game #4
--------------------

In the far south of Ikana canyon you'll find that 
Akindo nut in the deed trading game. After trading all the previous deeds, talk 
to him as a zora and he'll pay you 200 rupees for the ocean title deed you got 
in zora hall, and vacate so you can get that heart piece.

9)Sneak into the Music House: Get the Gibdo Mask
------------------------------------------------

As you approach the music 
house, you'll see a little girl examining the river. If she spots you, she'll 
dash back inside and lock the door, so be stealthy! The stone mask is great 
here, but if you don't have it and couldn't sneak in, you can always lure her 
back out by plating a bomb on her doorstep and hiding on the riverside of her 
house. When she comes out to investigate the source of the blast, sneak inside 
and head downstairs.

       Gadzooks! It's a Gibdo... Sort of... if you reach for your sword, young 
Pamela will kick you out of the house, so reach for your ocarina instead and 
play the song of healing. Dad will be healed, the Gibdo Mask will be yours (it 
allows you to talk with Gibdos and ReDeads), and everyone will be happy.

10)Beneath the Well
-------------------

after you get the Gibdo Mask, dive into the well in the 
hills above Pamela's house. To unlock each of the thirteen doors in this 
dungeon, you'll need to put on your Gibdo Mask and talk to the Gibdos that 
block each door. Each wants one specific item, and won't go away until you 
bring it to them. Fortunately, all of the items can be found within the dungeon 
itself, except for a blue potion and 5 magic beans. Grab both before you come 
in (you can get the blue potion from the akindo nut in Ikana Canyon).

10)The Bottom of the Well (continued)
-------------------------------------

One warning before we begin. You need 
to keep moving in this dungeon, since many of these rooms contain floor masters 
enemies that will drop down and pull you back to the beginning of the dungeon. 
If you see its shadow over yours either run, or get out of the way and attacks 
when it hits the ground.

1)	In the first room, give your blue potion to the Gibdo in the north 
and the magic beans to the one in the east. We'll head north to 
cover that section first.

2)	You'll find fish (get two) and water in the alcove here. Then use 
your deku form to float over the spiked logs, and give the item to 
the Gibdos that wants them. Keep heading north.

3)	Grab some bugs from the west alcove, and smash the pots in the east 
alcove if you are short on bombs (you'll need at least 10). Watch 
out for Boes hiding in the pots.

4)	That's all you need to do here: The room to the north contains a 
fairy fountain (no Gibdos want fairies) and the room to the east 
has an invisible chest containing 50 rupees since these Gidbos only 
want bugs, you might as well pay the optional rooms a visit.

5)	On your way back to the entrance, go to the room with the hot 
water. You'll need to transform into a zora to kill the Dexi-Hand, 
and then stay against the north wall to avoid the flame jets. 
Remember that the hot water will cool in one minute, so you'll need 
to hurry!

6)	Float over the spiked logs again and return to the room where we 
started. Head west this time, and give the Gibdo blocking the west 
door 10 deku nuts (if you don't have any, head north, give the 
Gibdo your extra fish and kill the deku babas for some extra nuts).

7)	Give the farthest west Gibdo the hot water. In the room he guarded 
you can get milk from the cow by playing Epona's Song.

8)	Give the north Gibdo the 10 bombs, and do battle with a big Poe. 
Just block with your shield, wait for its attack to miss, and then 
hit it with an arrow. After five shots, it will leave behind his 
big Poe token. Grab it in a bottle.

9)	Head north. If you want, light the two torches on the west wall and 
a chest with fifty rupees will appear. Give the Gibdo in the north 
the big Poe.

10)	Carefully sneak past the spiked logs, and give the milk to the 
final Gibdo.
       
Get the Mirror Shield
---------------------

As you use you fire arrows to light the four 
braziers in this room and the chest containing the mirror shield will appear. 
As you can see, this is not your father's mirror shield, but one of the fancy 
new grimace-of-despair mirror shield that are all the rage theses days.

       As horrific as it may look, it does not work the same as the classic 
Mirror Shield: Just stand in a sunlight area, hold the R button, and use your 
control stick to reflect the light onto ht sun switch (which make a ladder 
appear) and the sun block (which is destroyed by the light).

11)Go Buy a Powder Keg
----------------------

When you climb out of the Mirror Shield chamber, 
you'll find yourself in the courtyard of Ikana Castle. This is out next 
destination, but you'll need a powder keg to beat it, so warp back to clock 
town now if you don't have one.

      To get back into the castle, take the side entrance, hit the crystal 
switch, and reflect the light with your shield to destroy the block.

12)Enter Ikana Castle
---------------------

There are four ReDeads in this room, but they are not 
in the mood to talk. They're in the mood... to dance! Yep, slip on the Gibdo 
Mask, Garo's Mask, or Captain's Hat to turn these ReDeads into dancing 
Machines. Then calmly walk up and cut them into pieces. Then use fire arrows to 
flip the two ice-encrusted eye switches on the pillars surrounding the dance 
floor. We'll head to the north wing first.

13)The Castle's North Wing
--------------------------

Smash the pot at the entrance to the next room 
for a magic pot. Then transform into your deku form, hit the crystal switch, 
and dash to the deku flower closest to the column with the foot switch. Burrow 
into the flower and wait for the floor to drop. Then burst out of the flower to 
raise the floor, drop, burrow, and burst again to float to the switch. 
Transform back to Link, hit the switch, and leap to the exit.

      In the next room, there's an invisible platform between the entrance and 
the foot switch. Trip the switch as Link, and then either shoot the big 
skulltulas hiding behind the columns or jump across to the exit (you'll need to 
use a rolling jump to clear the final chasm) or shoot the mines into each other 
and use the deku flower to fly across as a Deku.

      Run quickly through the stairwell to avoid the blue bubbles on your ways 
to the roof.

14)Trip the Exterior Switch: Fly to the Heart Piece
---------------------------------------------------

Climb onto the thin blue 
and brown-striped ridge that surrounds the roof, and go to the platform 
directly above the castle's front door. Droop down and use the deku flower to 
fly to the foot switch. Trip that as Link, and then jump to the other column 
and use the flower to get back to the platform over the entrance.

      You need to get back to the first floor anyway, so you have nothing to 
lose by going for the heart piece. To prevent possible interference, stand by 
shooting all the Keese you can see. Then hit the crystal switch in the north 
courtyard with an arrow, and do a rolling jump to the column with the deku 
flower. Fly from column to column and snag that heart piece before the Keese 
regenerated and knock you down, or the fire turns back on.

15)The Castle's South Wing
--------------------------

Go back inside, but head south this time. If you 
opened the hole on the roof, you'll have a nice sunbeam you can use to dissolve 
the sun block and incinerate the floor master in the first room. Keep one of 
your undead masks on so that you can make the ReDeads dance a jaunty jigs while 
you slaughter them too.

      The next room contains a Wizrobe, one of those annoying mini-bosses from 
the snowhead temple. Just find a corner where you can scan the room, shoot the 
one that spins as soon as it teleports, and use your shield to block any shots 
he gets off. The only thing blocking the stairwell past him is more ridiculous 
dancing ReDeads.

16)Blow Open the Skylight
-------------------------

From the south stairwell, you can finally access 
the center part of Ikana's Castle roof. Plant your powder keg directly above 
the skylight there, and when it blows jump in after it. You now have all the 
sun you need to melt the sun block at the east end of the room, and to kill 
those goofy ReDeads one more time.

17)Battle the King's Guard
--------------------------

These guys don't have mask or goofy names, but 
they put up as good a fight as any boss, so you'd better be ready for it. You 
can try to avoid the fight with your captain's hat, but that ruse will only go 
so far.

      Start by aiming your fire arrows at the curtains that drop over the 
windows. While it will take good swordsmanship to knock to foes down, you'll 
need direct light to get to the kill. Lure them close to the sunbeams, and then 
take them down by blocking their attacks and doing quick-counter attacks. When 
they fall, run to the sunbeam and reflect the light at them until their bodies 
burn away.

      When both subordinates are dead, the king will enter the fray. He has a 
big shield, but he has trouble blocking forward trusts (forward and B button 
while he's z-targeted). If his head detaches and attacks you separately, just 
roll out of its way or run away with the bunny hood until it reattaches and he 
becomes vulnerable again. When he drops, use reflected sunlight to dispose of 
the corpse, as you did to his henchmen.

The Elegy of Emptiness
----------------------

The Elegy of Emptiness is just the coolest Zelda 
song ever. Sure, the name makes me want to kill myself, but the ability to make 
horrific little totem Link, Dekus, Gorons and Zoras rocks. They're 
simultaneously cute and disgusting; cruel, adorable mockeries of life itself! 
And of course, they're pretty handy in the stone tower too.

The Ghost Hut Duels
-------------------

For 30 rupees the proprietor of this mini game will 
give you three minutes to battle the four ghost sisters. If you play him the 
song of healing, he'll knock the price down to 10.
 
     The first three ghosts are typical: Block and slash after their attack. 
But the final one creates three illusion forms that circle you. The true ghost 
spins once, so if you want the heart piece prize, aim your arrows at the one.

18)Scale the Stone Tower: Activate Warp Point #10
-------------------------------------------------

The entrance to the stone 
tower is in the southeast corner of Ikana Canyon. Climb up the tongue of the 
demon statue, and you'll be faced with a series of floating platforms in a huge 
vertical area. Jump across the three platforms to a ledge with a foot switch. 
Step on it and play your elegy of emptiness to leave a totem of Link behind. 
Then hookshot to the next ledge, where you'll find a Beamos and a second 
switch. The Beamos is too far away to hurt you, so put on you Zora or Goron 
mask (the Deku id too light) and play the Elegy again on the switch. Hookshot 
up another level, and as your final non-deku form, play the elegy one more 
time. Now you should have totems on all three switches, and the platforms 
should have risen so you can cross to the other side.

      Ignore the first three switches you see there (they are for return trips 
only) and repeat the process. Hookshot up to the first switch, and leave one 
totem before hookshoting to the next (this will erase the previous totem of 
that character). You may want to toss a bomb at the Beamos this time, since 
it's dangerously close to the switch, and you can cross from there.

      If you have made a scarecrow song, you can play it now to get a target in 
the long strip of land with all the ReDeads. There isn't anything too exciting 
there, just some supplies in the pots. To hurry on to the final switches, just 
Hookshot up three more ledges, and you'll find the temple entrance and an owl 
statue.

      This is the only time the order matters: Facing towards the dungeon 
entrance, leave a totem on the middles, right and left switches, in that order.

Bombers' Notebook #12: Anju, Kafei, Et Al - Part 2
--------------------------------------------------

When last we left this 
subplot, Kafei had run off to Ikana Canyon to confront Sakon the burglar. Now 
that we have access to that area, it's time to see this quest through. After 
playing the first part of this event, meet Kafei outside the burglar's hideout 
(in the south part of the canyon, near the akindo nut) at 6:00 pm on the 3rd 
day.

      After you follow the burglar in, the door will shut, Kafei will trip on 
alarm, and you'll have to run through a five-room dungeon to save the sun's 
mask before it falls into the fault. You alternate playing Kafei and Link: 
Kafei pushes blocks to solve simple puzzles, while Link battles enemies (use 
deku nuts and jumping slashes for quick kills). To unlock each door for Kafei, 
push the blocks onto the blue switches. Yellow switches are good too, since 
they slow down the conveyor belt, but beware the red ones, which speed it up! 
If you are not there to grab the sun mask when it gets to the end to the belt, 
you will lose this event. 

      If you do recover the mask, meet Kafei at Anju's room in the stock pot 
inn 
at 4:30 am that night. The happily reunited couple will reward you with the 
couple's mask.

Part 4-2: Stone Tower
---------------------


1)The Stone Tower Entryway
--------------------------

Even if you don't care 
about the stray fairies, it's important to make all the fairy chests appear in 
this temple so you can use them as hookshot targets in the future. To get the 
first one here, shoot the switch in the left eye of the giant statue that faces 
the entrance to this temple. Stock up on magic pots from the handy crates in 
the northwest corner, and then go through the door to the left.

      Hookshot to the fairy chest you just revealed for fairy #1.

2)Create a Skylight to Level B1
-------------------------------

Either bomb the wall in this room or lure a 
real bombchus over to do it for you. Then quickly kill the bombchus before they 
can do any damage: you need those crates in there.

      Smash the big crates (with rolls or Goron punches) to get at the smaller 
ones behind them. Then take on of those and lay it on the first switch. Use you 
Elegy on the other three switches (the big one will require the Goron's weight) 
and the gate to the second part of this room will lit.

      Go to the brown, grassless patch in the northwest and blow it open with a 
bomb. Then head downstairs.

Get the Dungeon Map: Get Small Key #1
-------------------------------------

If you blew open the skylight, 
you'll be able to use your mirror shield to reflect the light onto the sun 
block, opening a path to the chest with the dungeon map.

      As a fire-immune Goron, wade into the lava and grab it. Then pick a fight 
with the four armors in the lava (just punch them and stay close until they 
start spinning, which is your cue to run away before they explode). When all 
four fall, a chest with the small key will appear.

      Fire at the hookshot target to get to the right of the door to pull 
yourself up to fairy #2.

Get Small Key #2
----------------

After grabbing the first small key, head back upstairs 
and unlock the locked door in the northeast corner of room B.

      There are two ways to get to the other side of the pool in the next room: 
Either do one of those dolphin flips up, or, if you just can't get the hang of 
that swim into the Dexi-hand over the door and let it toss you up, grab the 
small key from the chest and head east through the underwater door.

Get the Compass
---------------

There's a sunbeam hitting the bridge at the surface of 
this room, and you can reflect that sunbeam onto a nearby mirror. But this is 
no ordinary mirror: It holds in the light and doesn't release it until you put 
down your shield. So if you charge it up long enough, you'll have enough time 
to run up to the mirror and reflect the beam it emits onto the nearby sun 
block. This will reveal a chest with a compass, and open up a convenient 
shortcut to room A. then cross the bridge and unlock the door to room E.

      You can't get any stray fairies here now, but you can set some up for the 
future. At the pool bottom, hit the footswitch surrounded by the mines. On the 
surface, shoot a fire arrow at the ice switch above the door. Both of these 
switches will make up-side down chests appear.

3)Network the Mirrors
---------------------

Use you Goron punch to smash away the pillar that's 
blocking the sunbeam in this room. Using that to clear the first sun block is 
easy, but the next part takes finesse. You need to charge the mirror to Link's 
left, and use that reflected light to charge a second mirror before you can get 
the light close enough to reflect it onto the sun block. Wear your stones mask 
so black boes and Nejirons (in the alcoves at the end) don't interfere.

      The chest behind the first sun block contains fairy #3, and a chest with 
fairy #4 will appear if you burn away a specific sun switch.

4)Float over the Lava
---------------------

You'll need to do a long distance Deku flight to get 
to the door on the opposite end of this room. If you're collecting stray 
fairies, do the Goron switch thing before you blast off (see below).

      As a Deku, you'll need to fly from vent to vent and let the updrafts give 
you enough lift to make it to the next one. It's the distance between the 
second and third vents that's trickiest, especially with the real bombchus 
crawling in the grating. Hove on the second vent until the bombchus is out of 
the way before you attempt that lest leg of the flight.

      As a deku, you can fly to the chest with fairy #5 in the alcove to the 
left of the first vent. To reveal the chest with fairy #6 (near the exit), drop 
to the bottom and goron smash the switch in the lava. That will extinguish the 
ring of flames in the other end of the map, giving you a few seconds to roll 
there and hit the foot switch.

5)Garo Master: Get the Light Arrow
----------------------------------

The Garo master is quicker than the 
regular Garo, but not much tougher. If you block his strikes, he'll quickly 
recover and strike back, so back flip away instead and force him to teleport 
above you. Then you can step away and stab him when he lands.

      The prize is the light arrow, this temple's major item. If you're not 
collecting fairies, just warp back to the entrance now. If you are, continue 
south and use your hookshot to unmask the armored Hiploop in the next room.

Battle Eyegore for Fairies
--------------------------

Head south past the room with the armored 
Hiploop and you'll find yourself on the bridge in room C. you can take that 
bridge back to the dungeons entrance, but first you'll need to get past an 
angry Eyegore.

      Block the Eyegore's laser with your shield, and shoot him in the eye with 
you light arrow to blind him. When he's stunned, follow up with another arrow 
or a sharp poke in the eye with the hookshot. Repeat and a chest with fairy #7 
will appear upon his death.

      Then loop back around to the other side of this room (through room D) and 
toss a bomb over the gate to activate the crystal switch near the Beamos. Swim 
across the pond, flip onto the other side, and shoot the sun block with a light 
arrow to destroy it. Then grab fairy #8.

6)Flip the Stone Tower
----------------------

The next step actually takes place outside the 
temple. Warp back to the owl statue, and leave a totem on the middle switch to 
clear a floating platform out of the way. Then from either corner of the ledge 
with the statue and pots, fire a light arrow at the red scarab jewel on the 
ledge below the entrance.

      The entire Stone Tower area will flip, leaving you on what used to be the 
ceiling. Head back to the temple, where everything will be inverted, and you 
can finally get all those weird up-side down treasure chests. You can fire at 
the same red scarab at any time to put things right again.

      Make a brief detour in room A before you flip the tower. Use your light 
arrow to shoot the sun switch in the south part of the central basin. An 
upside-down fairy chest will appear on the roof and you can grab it after the 
temple flips.

Collect Fairies: Get Small Key #3
---------------------------------

The tower hasn't really been turned 
upside-down. It's actually been inverted, so this area is like the image on a 
mirror behind held above the stone tower. This means that the rooms and their 
content are still in the same place in relation to their other horizontally, 
but have been flipped vertically. So our next stop, Room E, will still be east, 
but level B1 is now above 1F. Confused yet?

      To get into Room E, clear away the sun block with a light arrow. All the 
water has drained out, but the skylight on the floor now act as vents, and you 
can use those to reach the rooms many levels.

      Getting the small key here is easy, but the fairies take some work. 
First, 
turn into a Deku and, ignoring the deku flower, jump off the ledge into the 
first vents and let that carry you to the alcove on the other side. There 
you'll find fairy #10.
 
     Then jump down to either side of the bridge, on the floor near the vents, 
and shoot a light arrow at the sun switch that has previously been underwater. 
That will reveal and upside-down fairy chest you can get when you flip the 
temple back to normal.

      Use the vents to fly to the ledge in the east side of the room, where 
you'll find a silver foot switch. Take off you Deku mask and play The Elegy of 
Emptiness to leave behind a totem. That will clear the ring of fire in the top 
south ledge. Use the west vent (which goes the highest) to fly there as a Deku 
and get fairy #11.

      To get the small key, drop down onto the north-to-south bridge and go 
north until you find the foot switch. Hit that, and use your hookshot versus 
the Hiploop on the bridge so you can get to the chest safely. When you've got 
that, let the west vent take you up to the highest ledge, and head inside.

7)The Rotating Rooms
--------------------

The top door in room E leads to what used to be level 
B1, a series of three small rooms. The first woo feature red scarab switches 
like the one outside the temple, and will rotate the entire room when hit with 
light arrows.

      Rotating the room is pretty much all you need to do in the first one. 
Switch to your Goron forms and run across the lava, the shoot the switch again 
to get the doors back on the ground level.
 
     The next room is much trickier. You must push the moving block from one 
end of the room to the other by pushing it a couple of squares, rotating the 
room (so it ends up in the grooves of what used to be the ceiling), and 
repeating the process until you can slide it into the block-shaped hole that 
unlocks the door.

8)Wizrobe - Yet Again
---------------------

Don't go out of your way to find a good spot this 
time, just stay in the doorway and shoot Wizrobe from there. It's a good 
vantage point, and you are safe from the lava that drips down from what was 
Room C's floor. You can reflect his fireballs with your shield, and, if you use 
light arrows, you can off this chump in four shots.
 
     When he dies, hookshot up to the chest that appears and take the stairs to 
1F.

9)Cross the Ghost Room: Get Small Key #4
----------------------------------------

This room, once a simple 
courtyard, is now infested by Poes. You can ignore them, but undead things are 
always fun to kill with light arrows, since they explode in such pretty colors.

      When you've had your fun, fly across the pit, but don't open the door on 
the other side. Instead, rolling jump to your right (or use the Deku Flower). 
If you trip the foot switch in the small maze (and leave a totem on it), you 
can extinguish the flames around the chest with the small key. But the death 
armos won't make it easy for you... unless you wear you stone mask. Then 
they'll 
ignore you altogether.

10)Soar Across the Abyss
------------------------

With the pool emptied and the bridge far above you, 
there's nothing you can do in the next room but fly across. Before you go, make 
sure you fire an arrow at the mines so they knock into each other and explode. 
You'll need to be able to get into that alcove, since one Deku Flower burst 
won't take you all the way across. Watch out for angry pots!

11)Battle Gomess: Get the Boss Key
----------------------------------

The door on the other side of the abyss 
leads to the converted bridge in room E. There isn't much to do here but stock 
up on magic pots from the crates and fend off blue bubbles. As I mentioned 
before, undead creatures aren't a big fan of light arrows. The blue bubbles are 
no exceptions, and their loss is your gain because they turn into purple rupees 
worth 50 whenever they're hit.

      At the end of the path you'll face Gomess and his cloak of bats. The bats 
protect him from your attacks, but they'll run for cover when you light up the 
room by shooting Gomess in the chest with a light arrow. That's your 
opportunity to rush up and stab him in his green crystal. If you run out of 
magic pots, you can get more by killing the bats.

      You can block most hits from Gomess' scythe, but when he spins it around 
it's unblock able, so back or slide-flip away. When he finally falls to your 
blade, grab the boss key and head back outside.

12)Trip the Room V Foot Switch
------------------------------

After you fly back across the abyss in room 
D, hang a left and enter this small alcove in the entranceway. You can jump 
right over to the final foot switch, but there's a nasty death armos guarding 
it and not a lot of room to maneuver. One option is to kill the death armos by 
shooting a light arrow into that glowing panel on its side and then following 
it up with a quick slash when he's stunned. But if he not directly in your way, 
it easier just to use the stone mask.

      The switch makes another upside-down chest appear on the ceiling of this 
room. It contains a stray fairy, but right now it's only important as a 
hookshot target. Pull yourself up to it and open the final locked door.

13)Battle Eyegore - Round 2: Get the Giant's Mask
-------------------------------------------------

The inverted temple has an 
Eyegore too, and it's not pleased about what happened to the last one. This one 
seems much more aggressive, so have your shield at the ready as you approach 
and take it out with ranged weapons like your light arrow and hookshot.

      When it dies, a chest with the giant's mask will appear. This nifty bonus 
temple item can only be used on the upcoming temple boss.

14)To the Boss Chamber
----------------------

If your magic bar isn't at least half full, you may 
want to go forage for magic pots before you face the boss. When you're ready, 
hit the switch, and wait for the spiked logs to give you an opening, and 
hookshot to the chest on the ceiling. You'll land right in front of the boss 
door.

Giant Masked Insect Twinmold
----------------------------

This is an odd boss fight, as the enemies 
are completely indifferent to Link and the only real challenge is in using you 
Giant's Mask effectively. Slap it up and Link will balloon twenty times his 
original size, which is big enough to battle the centipedes in hand-to-hand (or 
rather sword-to-face) combat. The enemies' weak points are their heads and the 
tips of their tails, so concentrate your attacks there.

      The mask power comes at a price, which is that it drains your magic 
energy. When you're running low, start smashing the buildings scattered around 
the battlefield for magic pots. Giant Link cannot pick up the tiny pots, so 
you'll have to take off the mask and search for them at your normal size. If 
you have to fight Twinmold again, a good cheat is to drink some Romani Ranch 
milk and never run out of magic at all.

      If you do run out of magic, you have two options. One is to stay normal 
size and to finish Twinmold with arrows to the head and tail (they move fast, 
so don't fire unless you're really close). The other is to hang around one of 
the grey buildings and wait for one of them to smash into it, hopefully 
unearthing a few magic pots.

Collect the Final Fairies
-------------------------

Twinmold may be dead, but we're still missing a 
trio of fairies. All three are found in the right side up version of the stone 
tower, but in chest that were revealed performing actions in the inverted 
temple. If you've followed the guide closely, you've already revealed all 
three. Warp back to the owl statue, flip the temple again, and go fairy 
hunting.

      Fairy #13 is right in the first room, in the chest at the bottom of the 
pit that we used as a hookshot target. Head east into room D to grab fairy #14 
from the now underwater chest that appeared when we shot the sun switch. Then 
continue north, looping through rooms F, G and H, to get to room I where Fairy 
#15 awaits (in the chest that appeared when we hit the crystal switch).

      The Great Fairy's Boon: This Great Fairy Fountain is easy to find, since 
it has its own building right by the dungeons entrance (it's just south of the 
entrance by the game's auto-map).

      If you collected all 15 yellow fairies, you'll be granted the Great 
Fairy's Sword, a massive Biggoron-esque two-handed sword that you can equip to 
a C-button. 

The Secret Shrine
-----------------

Itching to bust some heads with that new sword of 
yours? There's no better place to put it through its paces than the secret 
shrine, the secret area behind the waterfall in northwest Ikana Canyon 
(southwest on the game's auto-map). You'll need to fire a light arrow at the 
switch above the door to enter, and even then you'll be turned away if you 
don't have at least 16 heart pieces. Not that you'll need that many: Each of 
the four rooms contains one mini-boss you already beat when you were much 
weaker, and they'll drop like flies when faced with your new arsenal. But 
that's the fun of it, really... That and the fact that you earn a heart piece 
for 
killing all four.

      The enemies shown below are in clockwise order, from left to right. Each 
has been powered up a bit, so be wary (but not too wary, because they're still 
total chum). Each victory will also net a silver rupee (100 rupees). 1- 
Lizalfos, 2-Wizrobe, 3- Wort and 4- Garo Master.

Bombers' Notebook #13: Dotour Mayor of Clock Town
-------------------------------------------------

If you've completed all 
of bombers' notebook corners so far, you should only be missing one seal. 
That's mayor Dotour's, and completing his entry is easy. Just walk into his 
office while wearing the couple's mask and remind him of what's really 
important in life. (Love or something. I guess? I still think being struck by a 
falling moon is important. But that's just me). Ta da! If you have all the 
seals (and therefore all the masks) you're more than ready for the game's 
finale. 

Finale: Majora's Mask
---------------------

1)Confront the Skull Kid
------------------------

When you've completed your 
mask collection, cleared all four temples, and finished your bombers' notebook, 
your quest is nearly at its end. All that's left is to return to the place 
where it all began: The clock tower where you can confront the skull kid at 
midnight of the final day.

      This time, play the Oath to Order you learned at the end of the woodfall 
temple. This song will summon the help you need to put an end to the skull 
kid's nefarious plans.

2)Talk to the Mask Children
---------------------------

Calling the next part of the game "surreal" 
would be barely scratching the surface. The game's final setting is a grassy 
plain with a single tree, at which five children have gathered. They're each 
wearing one of the boss masks, and they all want to play with you.

      Believe it or not, almost of all this is optional. If you'd like, you can 
walk up right to the kid wearing Majora's Mask and go straight to the last 
boss. But if you'd like one final challenge, agree to play with the children 
wearing the boss masks. Each one will ask for 1-4 masks before the game begins 
and an equal amount when the game ends. So to play all four games, you'll need 
all twenty masks. If you have them all, and beat all four games, you'll be 
rewarded for it. Not only you will receive the four final heart pieces, but 
you'll also get the game's secret final mask.
      Odolwa Child: Deku Dungeon: 2 Masks.
      Ghot Child: Goron Dungeon: 4 Masks.
      Gyorg Child: Zora Dungeon: 6 Masks.
      Twinmold Child: Link Dungeon: 8 Masks.

The Odolwa Child
----------------

If you've completed the deku scrub playground game, you 
shouldn't have many problems with this deku-oriented mini dungeon. You'll need 
to fly from the flower to the rotating platforms which have flowers on the tips 
and pop out of those when they are near your destination. The catch is that in 
the final stretch, when you are flying from the heart piece in the northeast 
corner to the exit in the northwest one, you'll have to watch out for a spiked 
log rotating in the opposite direction. You'll need to time your landings 
carefully and burrow into the flower when the spikes pass overhead.

      There are Gossip stones everywhere here, but they only give tips about 
where to find masks. So if you have them all, just skip it.

The Ghot Child
--------------

You have to use the notoriously twitchy goron roll over a 
long series of thins ledges and nerve-racking jumps in this area, but it's 
nowhere near as difficult as it looks. The trick is to start your roll and aim 
straight ahead. If you're perfectly straight, you can take your fingers of the 
control stick and watch as your goron automatically ricochets off the three 
open treasure chests and make all the necessary leaps to arrive safely in the 
island in the center of the map. The exit is a straight door west, but the 
heart piece requires one tricky maneuver.

The Gyorg Child
---------------

After the challenges of the too last dungeons, the Zora 
form's final game is surprisingly lame. It's just a network of tunnel with a 
string current but no obstacles. There's no real strategy here: Either rely on 
luck or just go left, left, right and left for the heart piece, and left, left, 
right and straight for the exit. The other rooms have gossip stones, so you can 
get more tips about missing masks, if you haven't already traded away your mask 
of truth.

The Twinmold Child
------------------

Finally, it's Link's turn to shine. He'll get an 
opportunity to use his new Great Fairy's Sword to shred some foes in room B, D 
and F (which contain Lizalfos, Garo Master and Iron Knuckle respectively). If 
these battles leave you hurting, make sure to use your song of storms to coax 
recovery fairies out of the many gossip stone that you'll pass.

      After defeating the Garo master, hookshot up to the chest of arrows and 
enter room F, where the Iron Knuckle awaits. As you've done before, stay close, 
attack fast, and don't worry about anything except his over head attack. The 
price here is bombchus, and for once you'll be grateful, since you can't get 
past the next two rooms without them!

      To reveal the switch that activated the ladder in room E, you have to 
release the bombchus so that it explodes near the crack of the wall. It takes 
good timing, but isn't too challenging. The puzzle in room F is much harder, 
since the crack is on the ceiling! You need both time it carefully and aim your 
bombchus exactly right to succeed here. When you do that the heart piece is 
yours.

The Fierce Deity's Mask
-----------------------

The final mask is the one big secret in Majora's 
Mask. If you trade away all 20 of your masks to the other kids before you talk 
to Majora, he'll give you a new mask: The obscenely powerful Fierce Deity's 
Mask. This turns Link into a full grown adult with a projectile-firing sword 
that no enemy can effectively defend against. The only Majora Strategy you need 
for this form is Z-target and press B rapidly.

      If you earns this mask and then beat the game, if will be added to your 
save file. If you warp to any other boss in the game, you'll find you can use 
them against them, too!

3)Battle Majora's Mask
----------------------

If you're looking for a fair fight, skip the Fierce 
Deity's Mask and go against Majora the old fashioned way. This boss has four 
progressively, more difficult forms, but should be fairly easy to beat for 
anyone who brought a full quiver of arrows.
 
     Its first form barely attacks at all, you can use arrows to stun it, but 
that's kind of a waste of precious resource. Whatever weapon you use, you'll 
need to hit the mask in the back to hurt it. For its second form, all the other 
boss masks join in the fight. Fortunately, Majora also begins using a fire 
beams that can easily be redirected with your mirror shield against the other 
masks or Majora itself. Kill the other masks now, while it's easy to do, since 
they only take three shots each.

      After that, Majora grows legs. This is where arrows start to come in 
handy, but time them carefully, since this Majora is quick. If you don't want 
to waste them, use your deku form here. It has it bubble power, can damage 
downed Majora with its spin attack, and has a useful 360 degree shield to guard 
against Majora's flurry of attacks.

      The final form id the most aggressive. Those whips can do some damage, so 
concentrate on preventing its attacks by hitting it with an arrow whenever it 
pauses to launch an attack of its own (keep it Z-targeted constantly). Then 
dash forward and give it a taste of your Gilded Sword or Great Fairy's Blade.

      Congratulations!!! You just ended one of the best Nintendo 64 games ever, 
the Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask.
      
      
      
Masks
-----
      

      The Postman's Hat: How to Get It: Follow Kafei's Bombers' Notebook event 
until given the letter for Madame Aroma. Give that to the Postman to deliver, 
and talk to him about it afterward. What it does: Allows you to open the 
mailboxes in Clock Town. The first time you do so, you'll find a heart piece. 
Every other time you'll find 1 rupee.

      The All-Night Mask: How to Get It: Protect the old woman from Sakon on 
the 
first night, and this will be for sale at the Curiosity Shop on the third night 
(it costs 500r, so you need the Giant's Wallet). What it Does: Link can't fall 
asleep while wearing this mask. While wearing it, talk to Anju's grandmother in 
the Stock Pot Inn. Listen to her stories and answer her questions right and 
then wrong to earn two heart pieces. 

      The Blast Mask: How to Get It: Rescue the old woman from Sakon in North 
Clock Town just after midnight on the first night. What it Does: Can be used as 
a bomb, but regenerates slowly between uses. If you raise you shield first 
(with the R button), Link won't take damage from the explosion.

      The Stone Mask: How to Get It: Use your Lens of Truth to Shiro in the 
Canyon Pass (between Termina Field and Ikana Canyon). Give him a red potion to 
heal his wounds. What it Does: Makes you completely invisible to most enemies, 
including the guards in the Pirate Headquarters. Only bosses will attack you 
while you wear this mask!

      The Great Fairy's Mask: How to Get It: After being freed of the Deku 
curse, return to the Great Fairy Fountain in North Clock Town as Link. What it 
Does: This is an essential item for catching stray fairies. It emits purple 
sparkles when a fairy is in the room, and will attract the fairies to Link when 
freed.

      The Keaton Mask: How to Get It: Follow Kafei's Bombers' Notebook event 
until given the Special Delivery to Mama. The Curiosity Shop proprietor will 
give you this mask. What it Does: If you wear this mask and slash at the moving 
weed circles in North Clock Town, Milk Road or the Mountain Village, Keaton 
will appear. If you answer five quiz questions correctly, you'll win a heart 
piece.

      The Bremen Mask: How to Get It: Go to Clock Town laundry pool between 6 
pm 
and 6 am on the first or second day and talk to Guru- Guru. What it Does: When 
you use the "March" command dogs and chickens will be compelled to follow you. 
Use this mask to gather all the chicks in Grog's Cucco Shack and receive the 
Bunny Hood. 

      The Bunny Hood: How to Get It: At Grog's Cucco Shack in Romani Ranch, use 
the Bremen Mask to gather all 10 chicks. Grog will give you this mask when the 
chicks turn into adults. What it Does: Allows Link to run faster and give his 
regular jumps the distance of Rolling Jumps. Also allows you to see the timer 
throughout the Postman's Timing Game. A very useful mask.

      Don Gero's Mask: How to Get It: Use your Goron roll to break the 
chandelier in Goron Village. Carry the rock Sirloin you find there to the 
starving Goron in the Mountain Village area. What it Does: Allows you to talk 
to frogs. Each frog will then head to the Mountain Village, where you'll find 
them after Ghot is defeated and spring comes. Get a heart piece if you assemble 
all five.

      Mask of Scents: How to Get It: Return the Deku Princess to the Deku King 
after clearing the woodfall temple. If you can chase the King's Butler through 
the treasure maze he'll give this to you. What it Does: Allows you to see Magic 
Mushrooms (as puffs of purple smoke) in the woods of mystery and the Stock Pot 
Inn. If you give a magic mushroom to Kotake she'll begin selling Blue Potions. 

      Romani's Mask: How to Get It: After saving Romani from the alien ghost 
things, escort Cremia's milk wagon safely to Clock Town. What it Does: You need 
to wear this mask to enter the Milk Bar Latte during its normal hours of 
operation (10 pm to 6 am). You can purchase Romani Ranch Milk there, for 200 
rupees. 

      Circus Leader's Mask: How to Get It: At the Milk Bar Latte, help Toto 
with 
his sound check by playing with instruments of your four forms. Gorman, moved 
to tears, will give you this. What it Does: if you wear this mask during the 
Cremia Milk Wagon event, Gorman Brothers won't attack the wagon. Other 
characters may say different thing when you wear it.

      Kafei's Mask: How to Get It: Talk to Madame Aroma in the Mayor's Office 
and offer to help her look for her son. What it Does: Wear this mask and talk 
to Anju in the afternoon of the first day to begin the Kafei and Anju side-
quest. Other characters may say different things when you wear it.

      Couple's Mask: How to Get It: Complete the Anju and Kafei side-quest by 
recovering the sun mask stolen by Sakon the burglar. Receive this from the 
couple later that night. What it Does: If you wear this mask and then talk to 
the mayor between 10 am and 6 pm, you'll receive a heart piece.

      Mask of Truth: How to Get It: Retrieve all 30 Gold Skulltula Tokens in 
the 
Swamp Spider House. What it Does: This mask allows you to talk to the Gossip 
Stones scattered throughout the game, and allows you to read the thoughts of 
dogs when you pick them up. You can use it to cheat at the dog racetrack.

      Kamaro's Mask: How to Get It: After midnight in North Termina Field, 
Kamaro appears on tops of a frozen tree. Rolling jump to him, and play your 
Song of Healing. What it Does: In West Clock Town at night, wear this mask and 
use the dance command in front of the Rosa Sisters to teach them Kamaro's dance 
and earn a heart piece.

      The Gibdo Mask: How to Get It: After restoring water to the river, sneak 
into the Music House in Ikana Canyon. Go to the basement and play your Song of 
Healing for Pamela's dad. What it Does: Gibdos and ReDeads won't attack you. 
You can now speak with Gibdos in Ikana Canyon and at the bottom of the well.

      Garo's Mask: How to Get It: After getting Epona in Romani Ranch (on the 
first day), ride her to the Gorman Brothers' camp and challenge them to a race. 
You'll receive this mask if you win. What it Does: When you wear this, the 
watchman atop the cliff in the Canyon Pass will raise a hookshot target so you 
can get to Ikana Canyon. While in Ikana Canyon or Ikana Castle, Garos will 
attack when you wear this.

      The Captain's Hat: How to Get It: In the Ikana Graveyard, play the Sonata 
of Awakening to raise Skull Keeta. Chase and defeat him, and you'll find this 
in his chest. What it Does: When you wear this mask, Stalchilds will talk to 
you and obey your commands. Use this to order them to open the graves in the 
graveyard, and to get the password in the ocean-side spider house.

      The Giant's Mask: How to Get It: Defeat the Eyegore in the inverted Stone 
Temple, and a treasure chest containing this will appear. What it Does: This 
mask can only be used during the Twinmold Boss fight. It turns Link into a 
giant, but gradually saps his magic power.

      The Deku Mask: How to Get It: After playing the Song of Time for the 
first 
time, the Mask Salesman will reach you the Song of Healing. Play it and you'll 
receive the Deku Mask. What it Does: Allows Link to transform into his Deku 
form at any time, and use all of its abilities. 

      The Goron Mask: How to Get It: After getting the Lens of Truth in Goron 
Village, Follow Darmani's ghost to his tomb and play the song of healing. What 
it Does: Allows Link to transform into his Goron form at any time, and use all 
of its abilities.

      The Zora Mask: How to Get It: Push Mikau's drowning body to the shore in 
the Great Bay, and then play your Song of Healing. What it Does: Allows Link to 
transform into his Zora form at any time, and use all of its abilities.

      The Fierce Deity's Mask: How to Get It: If you have the other 23 masks 
and 
complete all four mini-dungeons in the game's finale, the child wearing 
Majora's Mask will give this to you. What it Does: This mask can only be worn 
during boss battles. It turns Link into a grown adult with a powerful helix 
sword. Press B button to fire a projectile burst when an enemy is Z-targeted. 
      
      
      
Items
-----
      
Swords and Shields
------------------
       
       Razor Sword: How to Get It: Give your Kokiri Sword and 100 rupees to the 
Mountain Smithy and they will forge it for you. What it Does: This sword does 
double damage, but breaks after 100 hits and can't be taken back in time with 
you.

      Gilded Sword: How to Get It: How to Get It: Forge the Razor Sword, then, 
give that and the Gold Dust from the Goron Races to the Mountain Smithy. What 
it Does: This sword does triple damage, never breaks, and can be taken back in 
time with you.

      Great Fairy's Sword: How to Get It: Collect all 15 stray fairies in the 
Stone Tower and take them to the Ikana Fairy Fountain. What it Does: This 
mighty sword is actually a C-button item. It has very long range but you can't 
use your shield while wielding it. 

      Mirror Shield: How to Get It: Found in a treasure chest at the end of the 
bottom of the well dungeon. What it Does: When you're in a sun beam, you can 
use this shield to reflect light-sensitive blocks, switches, and enemies. Also 
reflects certain enemy attacks. 
      
Ranged Weapons
--------------
      

      Hero's Bow: How to Get It: Prize for defeating Lizalfos in Woodfall 
Temple. What it Does: Allows you to use regular arrows to flip eye switches and 
crystal switches. Also damages and stuns some enemies. 

      Fire Arrow: How to Get It: Prize for defeating Wizrobe in Snowhead 
Temple. 
What it Does: Allows you to use fire arrows to trip frozen eye switches, light 
braziers, melt ice, and burn webs and curtains. Does extra damage to some 
enemies. 

      Ice Arrows: How to Get It: Prize for defeating Wort in Great Bay Temple. 
What it Does: Allows you to use ice arrows to freeze enemies and waterfalls and 
to make temporary icebergs in water (which Link can use as bridges).

      Light Arrow: How to Get It: Prize for defeating Garo Master in Stone 
Tower 
Temple. What it Does: Light arrows can destroy sun blocks and sun switches (the 
same as reflected light), and do extra damage to undead enemies.

      Hookshot: How to Get It: Found in Great Bay Gerudo Fortress. What it 
Does: 
Allows Link to target certain objects and pull himself towards them, to pick up 
items at a distance, and stun, damage or pull closer certain enemies.
      
Major Items
-----------
      

      Ocarina of Time: How to Get It: At the final night of the Prelude, 
confront the skull kid at the clock tower and shoot him with your magic bubble. 
What it Does: Allows you to play the Song of Time and 12 other songs, once you 
learn them. 

      Bombers' Notebook: How to Get It: As Link, either play the hide-and-go-
seek, or enter the Astral Observatory Path using the secret code and talk to 
the bombers on the way out. What it Does: Allows you to participate in 20 
optional side-quests, and records the schedules of the involved characters.

      Pictograph Box: How to Get It: Save Koume in the Wood of Mystery, and 
take 
the swamp cruise. You'll receive this as a bonus. What it Does: Allows you to 
photograph any scene in the game. Show this photographs to the contest judge or 
he fisherman to receive items.

      Lens of Truth: How to Get It: Follow Kepola Gebola's shed feathers to the 
floating cave outside Goron Village. What it Does: Allows you to see hidden 
platforms, treasure chests, characters and enemies, but slowly saps your magic 
power.
      
Event Items
-----------
      

      Moon's Tear: How to Get It: Observe the falling from the astral 
observatory telescope. Go outside and pick up the tear. What it Does: Trade 
this item to the Akindo Nut in South Clock Town for the first land title deed.

      The Four Deeds: How to Get It: Get Deed #1 in Clock Town, get Deed #2 in 
the Southern Swamp, get Deed #3 in Mountain Village and get Deed #4 in Zora 
Hall. What They Do: Trade each Deed for the next to gain access to Deku 
Flowers.

      Inn Key: How to Get It: Talk to Anju in the Stock Pot Inn at around 1 pm 
on the first day. Claim to have a reservation. What it Does: Allows you to 
enter the Inn at any time, and also unlocks the door to a second floor room 
with 100 rupees.

      Letter to Kafei: How to Get It: Talk to Anju at the Stock Pot Inn after 2 
pm on the first day, wearing Kafei's Mask. Meet her at 11:30 pm that night, and 
agree to help. What it Does: Put this in the mail, and when the postman 
delivers it, you can sneak into Kafei's home.

      Memorial Pendant: How to Get It: After you sneak into Kafei's home, he 
will ask you to deliver his item to Anju. What it Does: Personally deliver this 
to Anju to prove he is alive and well, and to continue the Kafei/Anju side-
quest. 

      Special Delivery to Mama: How to Get It: Return to Kafei's home in the 
afternoon of the first day and get his from the curiosity shop guy. What it 
Does: Either deliver this to Madame Aroma personally and get a bottle, or have 
the Postman do it and get his Postman's Hat.
      
Bottles
-------
      

      Bottle with Red Potion: How to Get It: IN the Southern Swamp, receive 
this 
from Kotake after you find Koume hurt in the Woods of Mystery. What it Does: 
The red potion fills your life bar, but that part's for Koume. The empty bottle 
is yours to keep.

      Bottle with Gold Dust: How to Get It: Defeat Ghot to bring about spring 
in 
Mountain Village. Use a powder keg to open the Goron Racetrack. Win the Goron 
Races. What it Does: Bring the gold dust to the blacksmiths so they can forge 
the Gilded Sword.

      Bottle with Milk: How to Get It: Use a powder keg to get into Romani 
Ranch 
on day 1. Successfully help Romani defend the Ranch against invaders. What it 
Does: Milk refills five heart containers. Each bottle contains two servings. 

      Bottle with Special Milk: How to Get It: Deliver the Special Delivery to 
Mama Mail. You receive as part of the Kafei/Anju side quest to Madame Aroma in 
the Milk Bar Latte. What it Does: After drinking Romani Ranch Milk you'll have 
unlimited magic for the rest of the cycle.

      Empty Bottle: How to Get It: Win the first round of the beaver races 
against both beavers. What it Does: It's an empty bottle. You put things in it. 

      Empty Bottle: How to Get It: On the third night, put on the Captain's Hat 
and order the Stalchilds to open the grave. Guide Dampe to all five digging 
spots and defeat the Big Poe that appears. What it Does: Bottle hot water and 
watch it cool for hours of entertainment. 
      
Expended Items
--------------
      
      Powder Keg: How to Get It: After defeating Ghot, talk to the Big Goron 
outside of Goron Village. After you get your certification, you can buy from 
there or in Clock Town. What it Does: An extra-strong bomb that can destroy 
boulders and the Ikana Castle skylight.

      Magic Beans: How to Get It: Beneath the Deku Palace, purchase a Magic 
Bean 
for 10 rupees. You can then buy them from the Southern Swamp Akindo Nut. What 
it Does: Plant and water them at bean spots and they will immediately grow into 
floating leaves that Link can ride on.

      Regular Bombs: This are widely available at shops and can be found for 
free in many areas. You need to buy a Bomb Bag before you can use this. Bombs 
can destroy rocks, open cracks in walls, unearth pits, and damage enemies.

      Deku Sticks: Deku Sticks can be used as a single shot mid range weapon 
that does about as much damage as the Kokiri Sword, or can be lit on fire at 
braziers to be used as a torch. These can be purchased in shops or found by 
killing full grown deku babas.

      Bombchus: These have the same effect from bombs, instead that they move 
in 
a straight line from the direction they are released, and explode two or three 
seconds later. They can be found in certain pits or purchased at the bomb shop.

      Deku Nuts: When used in battle by Human Link, deku nuts stun the enemies 
they hit. Deku Link can use them to bomb enemies below him while flying. Deku 
Nuts can be purchased, found in weeds or earned by killing immature Deku Babas. 
      
Capacity Increasing Items
-------------------------
      
      Adult Wallet: How to Get It: Receive as a prize when your bank account 
has 
200 or more rupees. What it Does: Allows you to hold up to 200 rupees.

      Giant's Wallet: How to Get It: Claim all 30 Gold Skulltula Tokens in the 
Oceanside Spider House on the first day. What it Does: Allows you to hold up to 
500 rupees, which is enough to purchase the All-Night Mask.

      Bigger Quiver: How to Get It: Awarded for scoring 40 or more in the Clock 
Town Shooting Gallery, or getting a perfect in the Swamp Road shooting gallery 
(whichever you accomplish first). What it Does; allows you to hold up to 40 
arrows.

      Biggest Quiver: How to Get It: Awarded for scoring 40 or more in the 
Clock 
Town Shooting Gallery, or getting a perfect in the Swamp Road shooting gallery, 
if you already have the Bigger Quiver. What it Does: Allows you to hold up to 
50 arrows.

      Bomb Bag: How to Get It: Purchase for 50 rupees at the Clock Town Bomb 
shop. What it Does: Allows you to use and find bombs, comes filled with its max 
capacity of 20 bombs. 

      Big Bomb Bag: How to Get It: If you save the old woman from the burglar 
in 
north clock town on the first night, this will be for sale in the bomb shop on 
day 2. If you don't it will be for sale in the Curiosity Shop on day 3. What it 
Does: Increases your bomb capacity to 30.

      Biggest Bomb Bag: How to Get It: Trade in the Big Bomb Bag and pay 200 
rupees to the Akindo Nut near the Goron City. This offer is available to Gorons 
only. What it Does: Increases you Bomb capacity to 40.
      
      
      
Heart Pieces
------------
       
Clock Town
----------
       
1.	The first Heart Piece is just sitting on the ledge right in front of 
the Clock Tower. You can't miss this one!

2.	As human Link, climb up the lowest pillar and jump from there to the 
second pillar, the slide top, the third pillar, and finally the tree.

3.	It's not easy, but you can get a Heart Piece by winning the Deku 
Scrub Playground game three days in a row.

4.	Choose the expert course at the Swordsman School and simply do a 
jumping slash ten times in a row.

5.	Win the timing mini-game the Postman offers in the afternoon of the 
first two days. The Bunny Hood makes it easier.

6.	After you earn the Postman's Hat for having the Postman deliver the 
letter to Aroma, check any mailbox.

7.	Once you've completed the Kamaro event, use the funkadelic dance 
abilities of Kamaro's Mask to teach the Rosa Sisters a trick or two.

8.	The bank will give you a Heart Piece as soon as your account balance 
reaches 5,000 rupees. Ouch! Start saving.

9.	Use the All-Night Mask sold at the curiosity shop to stay awake 
through Anju's Grandmother first story.

10.	Use the All-Night Mask to stay awake through Anju's Grandmother 
second story.

11.	Give something of paper (a deed or letter) to the mystery hand that 
pops out of the toilet at the Stock Pot Inn at night.

12.	Win the Treasure Maze Game as a Goron, and you'll find a Heart Piece 
in the chest at the end.

13.	You'll need to score a full-on Perfect at the shooting gallery to 
get the Heart Piece (that means hitting all 50 octoroks).

14.	The game at Honey & Darling's changes every day, and you'll need to 
win all three in one cycle to nab the top prize.

15.	Wear the Couple's Mask you earned for completing Kafei and Anju's 
side quest, and talk to the Mayor.

Termina Field
-------------

16.	There are four pits in Termina Field that contain a quartet 
of gossip stones. Transform into any form but human and play a 
temple-opening song like the Goron Lullaby, Sonata of Awakening or 
New Wave Bossa Nova. Play the same song as the same form in all 
four of the pits, and they'll present you with a Heart Piece.

17.	Jump into this pit, and kill a pair of Dodongos with bombs or 
arrow shots to their tails. A chest with a Heart Piece will appear.

18.	Bomb the rock to open up this pit. There's a Heart Piece in 
one of the hives on the ceiling but you'll need the Zora form to 
get it when it falls in the water.

19.	There's a pit hidden amidst this patch of tall grass (watch 
the butterflies above it). You'll get a Heart Piece if you kill the 
Peahat inside.

20.	Use the telescope to watch for the Akindo Nut who lives in 
this pit. When you see him fly inside, jump in after him and haggle 
over the price of a Heart Piece.

Marshlands
----------

21.	On the Swamp Road, shoot down as many bad bats as you can and 
climb up the tree they had been guarding.

22.	The first time you get a perfect at the Swamp Shooting 
Gallery, you get a quiver. The second time you get a Heart Piece.

23.	Trade the Land Title Deed for the Swamp Title Deed and use 
the Akindo's Flower to fly to the Heart Piece.

24.	Win the photography contest by turning in a photo of the Deku 
King or the judge's missing son, Tingle.

25.	In the far left side of deku palace, you'll se a Heart Piece 
amidst the crops. It's right in you way.

26.	The Heart Piece in the Woodfall area is just left of the 
entrance, but you have to go all the way around to get it.

27.	After clearing the Woodfall Temple, beat Koume's Boat Cruise 
Shooting Game with a score of 20 or more.

Mountain Village
----------------

28.	As a Deku, Trade you Swamp Title Deed for this Akindo's 
Mountain Title Deed, and use his flower to grab the Heart Piece.

29.	When the Frozen Lake thaws in spring (after you defeat Ghot) 
your Zora form can make it to this underwater treasure chest.

30.	You'll need the Hookshot, the Lens of Truth, and the 
Scarecrow Song to get this Heart Piece in Snowhead Pass.

31.	As we discussed before, you can use Don Gero's Mask to gather 
all five frogs in one place and earn a Heart Piece.

32.	Keaton's Quiz Question: To summon Keaton, wear his mask and 
go to one of the areas where the weeds run away when you slash them 
(they are in North Clock Town, Milk Road, and the Mountain Village 
during the spring). Keaton will appear and offer you five randomly 
selected quiz questions. Get them right, and you'll get the Heart 
Piece.

Great Bay
---------

33.	In the underground tunnel part of the Gerudo Fortress, hit 
the switch and run to the Heart Piece behind the gate.

34.	You'll need to use a Magic Bean plant and the scarecrow song 
to get to the Heart Piece in this shallow cave.

35.	After you beat the Great Bay Temple, take the fisherman's 
boat to this island and score a 20 on the jumping game.

36.	Kill all of the Sea Snakes at Pinnacle Rock to reunite the 
seahorse lovers and get a Heart Piece.

37.	Use the Captain's Hat to interrogate the Stalchilds in the 
spider House. They'll give you the password, digit by digit, to a 
door that can only be opened by shooting the colored masks in the 
right order.

38.	Use your hookshot to get to Mikau's second floor room in Zora 
Hall, and read the song ideas he had I his diary. Go to the 
bassist's room and flesh out the songs, then go to band-leader Evan 
and play them as Link.

39.	As a Goron, trade the Mountain Title Deed for the Ocean Title 
Deed and then use the flower to get the Heart Piece.

40.	Catch five fish in your bottles and feed them to the big fish 
in the Marine Research Lab. The fish will cough up a treat.

41.	Drop to the bottom of the waterfall's basin and kill the Like 
Like for an easy Heart Piece.

42.	After winning the bottle, challenge the beavers to another 
race. Beat 1:50 against both, and they'll give up the Piece.

Ikana and Romani Ranch
----------------------

43.	Have the Stalchilds smash open the grave on Day 2, and use 
the Lens of Truth to find you way to the end.

44.	As a Zora, sell the Ocean Title Deed for 200 rupees and then 
fly over to the last Trading Game Heart Piece.

45.	When you get to the roof of Ikana Castle walk around the 
railing, shoot the switch, and fly for the Piece on the north 
pillar.

46.	Kill all four Poe Sisters in less than 3 minutes and you can 
win a Heart Piece at the Ikana Canyon Ghost Hut.

47.	You can't attempt the Secret Shrine until you have 16 Heart 
Pieces and the Light Arrow. When you do, defeat four old mini-
bosses and you'll receive a Heart Piece.

48.	The only Heart Piece in Romani Ranch can be won in the dog-
racing game. Use your Mask of Truth to pick a winner and bet 
heavily. You get the prize if you win 150 rupees in a day.

Finale Mini-Dungeons
--------------------

49.	You'll have to use the yellow Deku Flower on the final 
spinner to get to the Heart Piece in the Odolwa dungeon.

50.	You'll have to roll a lot in order for you to get this one; 
it's in the Ghot dungeon.

51.	Go to the Finale to check specifications, but if you want you 
can rely on luck on the Gyorg dungeon.

52.	If you are handy with Bombchus, you won't have any trouble 
getting to the last Heart Piece in this easy mini-dungeon.



Bombers' Notebook
-----------------
       
       Number 1: The Bombers Gang: (Any Day, Any Time) You won't get far on any 
of the side quest in this section without the Bombers' Notebook. Your Deku form 
was briefly a member of the gang, but Link still has to prove his mettle to the 
Bombers as a Human to get the Notebook. The two ways to do that are: (1) Pop 
the balloon Jim is always shooting at in North Clock Town, and play the hide-
and-seek event again, or (2) use the password from the Prelude to enter the 
Observatory Path and get invited to join when you come back out.

       Getting the Notebook is all that there is to the Bombers' Notebook 
entry. 
So you get to start you journaling adventure with one seal already in the bag.

       Number 2 and 3: Anju and Kafei: (Day 1: 1:30-2:30 pm) It all starts at 
the Stock Pot Inn, where Anju will give you the Inn Key. If you talk to her at 
this time and claim to have a reservation. You only need to do this once to get 
the notebook credit for it, but it's a handy item to have whenever you're 
attempting this quest.

       (Day 1: 2:00-7:30 pm) After the Postman visits, talk to Anju while 
wearing the Kafei mask given to you by Madame Aroma. Anju will ask you to meet 
her in the kitchen later that night.

       (Day 1: 11:30 pm-5:00 am) Meet Anju as promised, and she'll ask for your 
help in locating Kafei. Take the letter she gives you and drop it in the mail 
box. Then wait for the postman to do his daily delivery rounds early in the 
afternoon, and follow him right to Kafei's hideout in the laundry pool.

       (Day 2: 5:00-11:00 pm) Sneak into Kafei's home while he deals with the 
Postman and, when he returns, he'll disclose the reason for his sudden 
disappearance and ask you to deliver a Pendant to Anju.

       (Day 2: 4:00-8:30 pm/Day 3: 6:00 am-12:00 pm) The next time Anju is 
working, stop by and drop off the Pendant.

       (Day 3: 1:00-6:00 pm) If you visit Kafei's hideout during this period, 
the Curiosity Shop proprietor will give you Kafei's Keaton Mask, a letter for 
Aroma, and informs you that Kafei has gone to Ikana Canyon to face the burglar 
who stole the Sun Mask. You'll need Epona and the Hookshot if you hope to meet 
him in Ikana and conclude this side quest.

       (Day 3: 6:00-7:00 pm) Get here early for this event, because Sakon the 
burglar will run away if he sees you, and then poor Kafei will never get 
closure (not in this cycle, anyway). After you follow the burglar in, the door 
will shut, Kafei will trip an alarm, and you'll have to save the Sun Mask 
before it falls into the vault. To do that you'll alternate between playing 
Kafei and Link in a brief, five-room action sequence. Kafei pushes blocks to 
solve simple puzzles while Link battle enemies (use Deku Nuts and Jumping 
Slashes for quick kills). To unlock each door for Kafei, push the blocks onto 
the blue switches. Yellow switches are good too, since they slow down the 
conveyor belt, but beware the red one, which speed it up! If you're not there 
to grab the Sun Mask when it gets to the end of the belt, you will lose this 
event.

       (Day 3: 4:30 am) If you do recover the mask, meet Kafei at Anju's room 
in 
the Stock Pot Inn at 4:300 am that night. The happily reunited couple will 
reward you with the Couple's Mask. This event occurs mere minutes before the 
end of the world, so be ready to bail out with the Song of Time.

       Number 4: Curiosity Shop Guy: (Day 3: 1:00-10:00 pm) If you've followed 
Kafei's event up to this point, you'll encounter this man in Kafei's Laundry 
Pool hideout. He'll give you the Keaton Mask and a Letter that Kafei wants you 
to deliver to Aroma.

       (Day 3: 10:00-5:30 pm) If you haven't rescued the Bomb Shop Woman in 
this 
cycle, the Curiosity Shop will be selling the stolen Big Bomb Bag. If you have, 
they'll be selling the All-night Mask instead. Purchase the mask, and you'll 
get the seal (if you already completed the above event.

       Number 5: Bomb Shop Woman: (Day 1: 12:00 am) If you're in North Clock 
Town at this time, you'll see a thief ambush and mug this kind old lady. Give 
him a taste of you blade (only Link's human form can hurt him, it seems) and 
the old woman will reward you with the Blast Mask. Her shop will also begin 
selling the Big Bomb Bag after you complete this event (If you fail, it will 
end up at the Curiosity Shop on the third night instead), but saving her is all 
you need to do to earn the seal.

       Number 6 and 7: Romani and Cremia: (Day 1: 6:00 am-6:00 pm) You'll need 
to Powder Keg away the boulder blocking Romani Ranch in order to get here in 
time for this event. Talk to Romani and agree to help her fight back a spectral 
invasion that night. She'll teach you Epona's Song and take you on a mounted 
archery training course.

       (Day 1: 2:00 am) Needless to say, your ghost-busting efforts have to 
actually succeed to complete this event. If they do, talk to her after the 
battle for a Bottle of Milk and her Notebook seal.

       (Day 2: 6:00-7:00 pm) If you talk to Cremia after successfully fighting 
the ghosts, she'll ask you to help escort her wagon. Meet her at the appointed 
time, and be ready to fight off the Gorman Brothers (this is an event in their 
Notebook entry, too). If at least one jug of milk arrives safely, you'll get 
the Romani's Mask and Cremia's seal.

       Number 8: Mayor Dotour: (Day 1 or 2: 10:00 am-8:00 pm, Day 3: 10:00 am-
6:00 pm) All you need to do to snag this seal is to talk to the honorable mayor 
while wearing the Couple's Mask you got at the end of Kafei's quest. He'll give 
you a Heart Piece, too.

       Number 9: Madame Aroma: (Day 1 or 2: 8:00 am-7:00 pm) Visit Aroma at the 
lounge in the Mayor's office and offer to help investigate her son's 
disappearance. She'll give you Kafei's Mask, the first step in his long side 
quest.

       (Day3: 6:00 pm-5: 1m) Pick up the letter that Kafei left with the 
Curiosity Shop guy in his Laundry Pool hideout. Deliver that to Madame Aroma 
personally and you'll get a Bottle of Romani Ranch milk and her seal. She's in 
the Milk Bar, so you'll need Romani's Mask to get in.

       Number 10 and 11: Toto and Gorman: (Day 1 or Day 2: 10:0 pm-5:00 am) 
Visit Toto in the Milk Bar and help him with his sound check. Depending on 
which tribe's mask Link is wearing, he'll ask you to stand in a different place 
on stage and play a different tune. When all four of your forms have played, a 
deeply moved Gorman will give you the Circus Leader's Mask and you'll get seals 
for both characters.

       Number 12: The Postman: (Day 1 or 2: 3:00 pm-12:00 am) Visit the Postman 
during his evening training exercises, and he'll challenge you to play his 
timing game. This is tough: You have to hit the button at 10 seconds exactly, 
to the hundredth of a second. If you need help, wear the Bunny Hood so the time 
will stay on screen. The prize is a Heart Piece.

       (Day 1: 12:00 am-5:00 pm) As part of Kafei and Anju's event, drop the 
letter Anju gives you into the mailbox.

       (Day 3: 6:00 pm-5: am) The impending apocalypse has left the Postman 
with 
no mail to deliver, and he's deeply depressed. Cheer him up by asking him to 
deliver the letter from Kafei to Aroma that the Curiosity Shop guy gave you. 
Rejuvenated, he'll give you the Postman's Hat.

       Number 13: The Rosa Sisters: (Day 1 or Day 2: 6:00 pm-6:00 am) These 
diligent dancer practice every night in West Clock Town, but just don't have 
the moves. So put on Kamaro's Mask and teach then a brand new dance. They'll 
thank you with a Heart Piece.

       Number 14: ??? (Toilet Guy): (Any Day: 12:00-6:00 am) Visit the Stock 
Pot 
Inn after midnight and you're likely to hear some disturbing noises coming from 
the loo. Give this poor fellow some paper-any deed or letter will do-and you'll 
earn his gratitude, his seal, and a Heart Piece.

       Number 25: Anju's Grandma: (Day 1 or Day 2: 8:00 am-6:00 pm) After you 
buy the All-Night Mask at the Curiosity Shop, take it over to Anju's 
Grandmother's rooms in the Stock Pot Inn. While wearing it, you can stay awake 
through both of her stories. If you answer her questions honestly, she'll give 
you two Heart Pieces and her seal.

       Number 16: Kamaro: (Any Day: 12:00-6:00 am) At midnight in North Termina 
Field, you may hear unusual music. Follow it to the frozen tree with the odd 
dancer, and do a Rolling Jump off the ledge to reach him.

       Put Kamaro at peace with your Song of Healing, and then take over his 
legacy of teaching weird dance to weird people by using his Kamaro's Mask in 
front of the Rosa Sisters.

       Number 17: Grog: (Any Day: 6:00 am-8:00 pm) Using the March command of 
your Bremen Mask, lure all ten chicks from the Cucco Shack into a line behind 
you. Keep them marching until they turn into real chickens (it takes lees time 
than you'd think) and a proud Grog will give you the Bunny Hood. 

       Number 18: The Gorman Brothers: (any Day: 6:00 am-6:00 pm) Nothing 
better 
represents the spirit of caring and generosity of the Bombers' Notebook than 
the pair of humiliating beatings you hand to these poor chumps. To get the 
first, ride Epona to their little camp (off Milk Road) and throw down a racing 
challenge. Victory nets you the Garo's Mask

       (Day 2: 6:00-7:00 pm) Play through Romani's and Cremia event until you 
get to the part where you have to escort the Milk Wagon. Fire on the two masked 
brothers whenever they raise their pitchforks, and you should be able to get at 
least one jug safely to the Milk Bar. Cremia will then reward you with the 
Romani's Mask, and you'll get both her and the Gorman Brothers' seal.

       Number 19: Shiro: (Any Day, Any Time) Poor Shiro is stuck in the Canyon 
Pass area between East Termina Field and Ikana Canyon. Use your Lens of Truth 
to see him in the circle of stones, and give him a Red Potion to heal his 
wounds. He'll thank you with the obscenely useful Stone Mask and, of course, 
his seal.

       Number 20: Guru-Guru: (Day 1 or 2: 6:00 pm-6:00 am) Oddly, the last 
notebook entry is probably the easiest to get. Just talk to Guru-Guru on the 
first or second night in the Laundry Pool, and hear his tale. He'll give you 
the Bremen Mask just for listening.
       
       
       
Skulltula House Strategies
--------------------------
       
Swamp Spider House
------------------
       
       The Skulltulas are back! The first of two Gold Skulltula Houses in the 
Marshlands, near the Deku Palace. Use a Deku Stick to burn away the web and 
begin this fun (but totally optional) quest.

       To heal the cursed man, you have to find and kill all 30 Gold 
Skulltulas, 
and retrieve the tokens they leave behind. When you do, he'll reward you with 
the Mask of Truth. You can attempt this side quest at any point, since you 
don't need the hookshot or any other late-game items. All you need is the Deku 
Mask, the Sonata of Awakening, and a couple of Magic Beans

       Number 1, 2 and 3: The first few Skulltulas are a cinch to catch. #1 is 
just piddling about in the pool. #2 is in a pot near the stairs, and #3 crawls 
up and down a pillar on the west side (hit him when he's low if you don't have 
a Hookshot).

       Number 4 and 5: Both of these Skulltulas are hiding in the bean spots. 
To 
flush them out, go back to the first room and catch some bugs in your bottle. 
Release those bugs near the bean spot, and they'll burrow in and kick the 
Skulltulas out.

       Number 6, 7 and 8: Head east into the next room. You'll fund one 
Skulltula in the small pots, and two more in the big pots on the east wall. To 
get the Skulltulas out of the big pots, use your Forward Roll.

       Number 9, 10, 11 and 12: Play the Sonata of Awakening for the sleeping 
Deku and he'll abandon his flower. There's one Skulltula in the tunnel near him 
(cut the vines that block the tunnel with your sword), and another on the 
higher level of this room, which you can reach with the Deku Flower. Then use 
snot bubbles to shoot down the hives on the ceiling for two more Skulltulas.

       Number 13, 14 and 15: There are three Skulltulas in the upper level of 
the main room. #13 is in a bean spot, so use bugs. #14 on the far wall is 
trickier. You'll need to shoot it down and use the Deku Flower to claim the 
token. #15 is on a pillar in the other side.

       Number 16, 17, 18 and 19: From the top of the main room, head into the 
west room. You'll find one Skulltula by the torch in the corner, and another on 
top of the metal thing in the center (use a Rolling Jump to get the token). Two 
more await in the crates on the ground level (smash the crates with Forward 
Rolls).

       Number 20: To get the Skulltula skittering beneath the catwalk, bomb 
away 
the rock in the corner to uncover a bean spot. Plant and water a Magic Bean, 
and ride that to your quarry (you can get beans from the Akindo Nut in the 
Southern Swamp and water in the main room's pool).

       Number 21, 22, 23 and 24: Enter the north room via the door on the 
higher 
level of the east room (where the sleeping Deku was). Hit the crystal switch to 
make a ladder appear, giving you access to Skulltula #21 and the bean spot. #22 
is on a nearby pillar, and #23 is in a hive on the ceiling. Plant and water a 
Magic Bean to get to Skulltula #24 and make an easy route to the last room.

       Number 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30: There are two Skulltula in the deep 
grass that surrounds this room and a third in a hive on the roof. The final 
three are all in the tree, and you'll need to hit the trunk with a solid roll 
to knock them out of it.

       The man at the entrance will now give you the Mask of Truth! Try it out 
on the nearby dog and at the gossip stone in the room with the tree.
       
The Oceanside Spider House
--------------------------
       
       This Skulltula House is a bit more challenging, because it needs to be 
completed during Day 1 to get the Giant's Wallet (on any other day, the prize 
is just rupees). You'll need to bring the Fire Arrow, the Hookshot and a Bomb 
(since you need to place one at the crack to get in). And since time is off the 
essence, you'll probably want to play the Song of Inverted Time before you get 
started. Happy hunting!

       Number 1, 2 and 3: These are all easy to get: There are two Skulltulas 
in 
the tunnel, and a third behind the gate. You'll need to burn away the web with 
a Fire Arrows and use a Hookshot to get the token. Then use the Hookshot target 
in the ceiling to pull yourself over.

       Number 4, 5, 6 and 7: You'll need sharp eyes and careful Hookshot aim to 
nail Skulltula #4 on the ceiling rafters near the entrance. #5 and #6 are in 
the pots (burn away the web, then roll into them to knock them out), and #7 is 
hiding behind one of the masks near the stairs. It'll poke its head out every 
few seconds.

       Number 8, 9, 10 and 11: This is where things get a bit tricky. Start 
with 
#8, which is hiding behind a picture frame (hit it with your Hookshot). Then go 
to the three small dressers near that and pull the south one further south, the 
north one further north and pull the middle one in any direction to reveal #9. 
#10 +11 are a simpler: Just push aside the bookcase in the south side of the 
room to reveal both.

       Number 12, 13 and 14: Shimmy up the empty shelves of the climbable 
bookcase, and scan the crack between the top of the wall and the ceiling for 
skulltula #12. You'll find #13 atop the bookcase in the opposite corner of that 
room, and #14 in a tight passage behind a painting (you need to be on the 
bookcase across from it to get the right Hookshot angle).

       Number 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19: Stop halfway down the stairs to this room 
and scan the crack between the ceiling and the east wall for Skulltula #15. 
You'll find #16 in the big pot by the torch near the north door, #17 in the 
little pot atop the crates in the corner, and #18 in a mask behind the stairs. 
Burn away the web on the west wall and peek into the crack to see #19.

       Number 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24: Burn away the web and head south. Roll 
into 
the crate on your right to reveal Skulltula #20, and hit the crate on the other 
side to uncover a passageway to #21. Shoot a Fire Arrow at the ceiling web on 
your left as you exit, and use your Hookshot to nab #22. Climb up the crates on 
the south wall and look to your left to see #23 hiding behind the canoe (?). 
Then climb up the crates near the hidden passage and head north. When you have 
a clear shot, Hookshot to the barrel on the rafters. Break open the other 
barrel up there and get #24.

       Number 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30: There's a Skulltula in the ceiling 
crack near the door, but you'll need to stand on the table to get a shot at it. 
The next two are easy: #26 is in the big pot in the corner, and #27 is behind 
the painting next to it. To get the final three, use your Goron form to do a 
Goron Smash in the middle of the table-etiquette be damned!

       The Secret Code: If you use your bow to shoot the four mask in the 
dining 
room in the right order, a passage to a Heart Piece will open. Each Stalchild 
knows one part of the code (there are six total... Don't forget the two in the 
library), and they'll tell you if you wear the Captain's Hat. Or, if you have 
lots of arrows you can figure it out by trial error. 
       
       
       
Songs
-----
       
       Song of Time: C-right, A, C-down, C-right, A, C-down: Saves and returns 
you to morning of Day 1. Event Items, Keys, Rupees and Usable Items are lost. 
All events are reset.

       Song of Healing: C-left, C-right, C-down, C-left, C-right, C-down: Used 
to get certain mask (Deku, Goron, Zora, Kamaro and Gibdo). Makes fairies appear 
from gossip stones.

       Epona's Song: C-up, C-left, C-right, C-up, C-left, C-right: Summons 
Epona 
in field areas. Makes cows give you milk. Makes fairies appears from gossip 
stones.

       Song of Soaring: C-down, C-left, C-up, C-down, C-left, C-up: On field, 
allows you to warp to any owl statue. In temples, returns you to the temple 
entrance.

       Song of Storms: A, C-down, C-up, A, C-down, C-up: Makes rain fall. Cures 
Curse effect. Pacifies Sharp's ghost. Makes fairies appear from gossip stones.

       Sonata of Awakening: C-up, C-left, C-up, C-left, A, C-right, A: Makes 
Woodfall Temple rise. Awakens sleeping Deku and Skull Keeta.

       Goron Lullaby: A, C-right, C-left, A, C-right, C-left, C-right, A: Puts 
all Gorons to sleep. Needed to enter Snowhead Temple.

       New Wave Bossa Nova: C-left, C-up, C-left, C-right, C-down, C-left, C-
right: Restores Lulu's voice and summons the turtle to take you to Great Bay 
Temple.

       Elegy of Emptiness: C-right, C-left, C-right, C-down, C-right, C-up, C-
left: Creates a duplicate (a maximum of one for each of your forms) that can 
stand on switches in a character's stead.

       Oath to Order: C-right, C-down, A, C-down, C-right, C-up: Summons the 
four guardians at the end of the game.

       Inverted Song of Time: C-down, A, C-right, C-down, A, C-right: Slows the 
natural flow of time to one half of its normal speed.

       Song of Double Time: C-right, C-right, A, A, C-down, C-down: Skips to 
next evening or morning (at 6 pm or 6 am) when played.

       Scarecrow Song: Your choice: Compose and teach a song to Pierre and use 
it to summon him as a Hookshot target. Can not be taken back in time.
       
Disclaimer
----------

This FAQ was written by me, Trunks Vegita (ss3growntrunks@yahoo.com)           
Unpublished work of Trunks Vegita 2003, and is for personal use only. This 
FAQ may not be republished in any other shape and form, be distributed   
for profits nor be used without the author's consent (ME). I am an            
understanding person and if you want to post this FAQ on your own        
webpage just contact me, ask me, and I'll see, but ask me don't just asuume 
I'll say yes because it may not be like that. Don't, however, just link your  
site to this FAQ on GameFAQs. You may print this FAQ, but remember, you  
can't sell it for money. All my FAQs are to be free! All offenders will  
be severily dealt with!                                                  
                                                                         
Zelda and Nintendo 64 are registered trademarks of Nintendo of America
Inc. The author of this document is in no way affiliated with    
Nintendo of America Inc. and/or the maker of Zelda.
                                                                         
Me, Trunks, take no responsibility for subsequent damage to property or 
injuries sustained from the use of this FAQ.   

Note to Webmasters
------------------

If you want to use this FAQ for your site, make sure that you keep on   
checking GameFAQs for latest revisions after you ask me for permission to post 
it in your site and if I agree. Otherwise, I will have to answer
questions that already answered in the latest editions and your site won't be 
good enough because of I won't answer questions already answered.


Credits
-------
       
       Well, first of all thanks to God for everything.
       
       Thanks to Nintendo for making such a great game, in fact one of the best 
they have ever made.
       
       Thanks to "Versus Books" Strategy Guide, for making a guide from which I 
got most the information from.
       
       Thanks to my parents for buying me the Nintendo 64 and the game of Zelda 
and also for the computer to write this thing.
       
       Thanks to me for writing this.

       This document is a copyright (c) 2002 of me Trunks who is SS3 Grown 
Trunks 
in www.gamefaqs.com.

       The only sites that can have this FAQ posted up until now are:
http://www.gamefaqs.com
http://www.cheatportal.com
http://www.911codes.com
http://www.911cheats.com
http://www.fastcheater.com
http://www.25000cheats.com
http://www.pc-cheats.org
http://www.skali.com
http://www.nin-force.com (HTML Version)
and of course, my own site
if you see this guide somewhere else that it is not on the sites above 
then tell me ASAP~
if you wanna know my site go to gamefaqs.com, features, contributor
recognition, and then click on SS3 Grown Trunks

===============================================================================


                             S                 S        
                            S S               S S       
                           S   S             S   S      
                          S     S           S     S     
                         S       S         S       S    
                        S         S       S         S   
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                        S     S   S       S     S   S   
                         S     S S         S     S S    
                          S     S           S     S     
                          SS     S          SS     S    
                         S  S     S        S  S     S   
                        S    S     S      S    S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                       S     S     S     S     S     S  
                        S         S       S         S   
                         S       S         S       S    
                          S     S           S     S     
                           S   S             S   S      
                            S S               S S       
                             S                 S        

       
     ---------------------------End of Document----------------------------
      

