ROM Hacking/Translating for Anyone

By: UtilMike v1.5

Intro

If you want to learn how to hack/translate ROMs this is what you 
want to read. This assumes that you already know how to use 
ROMs and emulators. All the examples use Gameboy ROMs, but 
everything will work with most other ROMs. Continue on to learn 
about basic text hacking.

Making a Table File
(You will need a table file before you can start text editing)
Run a Relative Search program and search for a word from the 
game. Go into a HEX EDITOR. Scroll down until you see the 
Offset for the text that the HEX EDITOR gave you. Overwrite the 
hex number with one number higher. Save and play the ROM 
until you find the word again this time the first letter should be 
different. Figure out the hex number for each letter or 
punctuation mark and make a table file.	
To make a table file, run TaBuLaR or Table Maker and you type 
the letter or punctuation mark that the hex number represents. 
Some web sites have table files for download.

Basic Text Hacking

In the olden days, ROM hackers had to use plain old hex editors. 
Now, we have this amazing program called "Thingy"
"Thingy" is has versions that work in Windows and DOS; I don't 
know about any others. "Thingy" takes a table file (see above)
and a ROM and displays text so that you can edit the actual text 
as it would look like in the ROM. To run "Thingy" Windows Ver. 
(called Thingy32) just double click on the icon and "Thingy" will 
ask for the ROM and up to 2 table files then will display the hex 
on the left side and the actual text on the right. Programming 
code will look like gibberish. Scroll down until you see some 
actual text you want to change. If you don't see any actual text, 
you probably didn't give "Thingy" the right table file. When you 
find something you want to change hit space before it and after 
it. A screen should pop up where you can type in the new text, 
you may run out of room before you finish typing your new text, 
when you're done typing the new text hit Enter or Return 
(depending on your computer) and the text on the right will be 
changed, along with the hex on the left. Those are the basics of 
using "Thingy". To use the more advanced features of "Thingy" 
read volume two of "ROM Hacking/Translating For Anyone". 
Read on to learn to hack ROM graphics.

Hacking ROM Graphics

If you want to change the graphics of a ROM, it is 
recommended that you use Tile Layer; it is the best graphics 
program out there. To run Tile Layer in Windows go to a DOS 
Prompt and type: cd C:\Where ever you unzipped tile layer to 
and hit Enter or Return then you should see the folder that tile 
layer is in followed by an ">". After the ">" type what ever you 
named tile layer followed by a ROM's name like this: 
>whateveryounamedtilelayer   whatever.format and hit Enter or 
Return. This what it looked like for me: 

C:\unzipped\tile_layer>tlayer cart.gb

(If you're still unsure how to run Tile Layer, read the 
readme!) Tile Layer should run and there should be a large 
rectangle with static inside, that's programming code that you 
shouldn't mess with. Scroll down until you see a graphic you 
want to change. Left click on part of the graphic you want 
change and it should pop up super-sized in the small window to 
the right. All the graphics are in tile format, the head on one side 
and the rest of the body on the other. Also, most graphics tiles 
combine to be the actual graphic. When the tile pops up in that 
little window you can edit it using you mouse and then right 
click where you want to paste it back into the ROM. When you're 
done, click "SAVE" and then click "QUIT" and you're all 
finished. To use the more advanced features of "Tile Layer" read 
volume two of "ROM Hacking/Translating For Anyone". Read on 
to learn about Title Screen Hacking.

Title Screen Hacking

Most of the time you just have to run Tile Layer, find the 
title screen and change it. Sometimes, however, the screen 
won't be in order, which makes changing it harder.

IPS Patches

An IPS Patch is the actual changed ROM that needs to be 
"patched" over the original ROM. The best way to do that is to 
use HebeGB. In HebeGB, find in your ROM in the directory 
display on the right, highlight it then click "IPS Patch". HebeGB 
will then give you another directory display. Find the IPS Patch 
in the directory and highlight it. Click "Patch ROM". Choose 
whether or not you want the checksum rewritten, and then the 
ROM will be patched. Congratulations! You've patched your first 
ROM! The next time you play your ROM, you will notice that it is 
the changed ROM. For another way to make IPS Patches see 
volume two of "ROM Hacking/Translating For Anyone". Read on 
to learn how to Change A ROM's Font.

Changing A ROM's Font

First, run Tile Layer. Scroll down until you see the English 
Alphabet. Then click on a letter edit and paste back over the old 
letter. Do that for all the letters, click "SAVE" then "QUIT" and 
you've changed the font!

Translating A ROM

	Now we are at the big hard part, translating a ROM. 
The first step would be to change the game's font from Japanese 
or any other alphabet to the alphabet you will be using for your 
translation. Mostly, people translate ROMs from Japanese to 
English, so that is what I will describe. Then play the ROM until 
you see some gibberish. Run a Relative Search program and 
search for that gibberish. Go into a HEX EDITOR. Scroll down 
until you see the Offset for the text. Overwrite the hex number 
with one one number higher. Save and play the ROM until you 
find the gibberish again this time the first letter should be 
different. Figure out the hex number for each letter or 
punctuation mark and make a table file. Go into "Thingy" and 
find the gibberish you searched for in Relative Search. Change 
the gibberish to what you want and play the rom. If the text is 
translated, you did it right!

  
