Copyright by Dominik Kirk 1999

-------------------------Easy and Painless Way to Destroy Both Emerald 
and Ruby WEAPONS Quickly---------------------

(and get a whole heck of a lot of goodies for doing it)

Better late than never. :-) 
Version 1.0 (looks good)

I know most everyone mastered the game by now, but I have thought of a 
new way to nuke the WEAPONS in FFVII. This is barely a FAQ since it is 
relatively short; but I think it's fairly good, and it gets the point 
across. 
I have outline a list of steps that must begin to be executed by the 
time you enter Sector 7 in the beginning of the game. Good luck, 
because if this works, you will finish the game a long time before 
anyone else.

1. After Barret gives you the cash for blowing up the reactor, you can 
eventually explore the rest of the slums with your party. Go the weapon 
store and mosey on upstairs to the Beginner's Hall. Grab the "All" 
Materia sitting near the door and then get out.

2. During your march up the many floors of the Shinra building, stop on 
the 63rd floor. Visit the computer to gain access to three security 
doors and collect the 3 coupons. Go straight up from the computer room 
until you can't go any further. Make a left and open a door. Continue 
left until you can't go any farther without opening a door. Go down 
now, and open a door. Get inside the room, get the coupon, and climb up 
the vent. Go to the next accessible room through the vent (NOT THE 
COMPUTER ROOM). Drop down and pick up the next coupon. Go out the door 
and make a left. Go into the next room, collect the next coupon, 
backtrack to the computer, and get the "All" Materia.

3. Equip both "All" Materials FOR THE REST OF THE GAME.

4. Once you pass Mythril Mines, get into a fight within a forest. Beat 
Yuffie and get her to join your party. To make her join, don't take 
your eyes off her or use the save point once your in the clearing after 
the battle. Instead talk to her. Respond like this:
a) Not interested
b) petrified
c) Wait a second
d) That's right
e) Let's hurry on

5. Equip the "Throw" Materia FOR THE REST OF THE GAME.

6. Eventually, master both "All"s and the "Throw" Materia.

7. Sell both "All"s for 1.5mil gil apiece. Now you should have at least 
3000000 gil!!!

8. Wait until Discs 2 or 3.

9. Engage in combat with Emerald WEAPON and use your Coin command 
(mastered Throw). Waste 1.5 mil gil to finish him off.

10. Engage in combat with Ultima WEAPON and use your strongest Summons 
at that point (Buhamut ZERO, etc.) and good strong Magic (Ultima, 
Contain Spells, etc.)

11. Engage in combat with Ruby WEAPON and use your Coin command 
(mastered Throw). Waste 1.5 mil gil to finish him off.

Now you can get Sources, Master Summon, Master Command, Master Magic, 
and a Gold Chocobo!!! Go to the various Materia Caves around the World 
and pick up MP HP switch, Quad-, Mime, and KOTR!!!!!!(it's well worth 
it) materias. If you got W-item material in the Invasion of the Shinra 
building part 2, buy two Syliskas Greens (the one for 5000 gil) from 
the Chocobo Sage and mutiply them until you get 99.
To do this, you must have W-item equiped. Get into a small battle and 
use W-item on the Green. Select it once and use it. Select it again but 
don't use it. Instead press X. Now select it again and press X. And 
again and again and again..... well you get it.
Feed your golden chocobo and bring him up to S class. Now, in S class, 
win 15-20 races in a row (piece of cake) you should get a lot of 
goodies for your troubles. In case you DON'T get the Sneak Attack 
Materia, I recommend racing until you do. Don't forget to buy the 
?????'s and materias that the woman in the Arcades is selling for GP 
(which you are winning from your Chocobo). ;-)

Pretty sweet huh?   

   
